Describe open and closed source.	An open source solution is one where the source code, and other internal logic, is exposed to the public. A closed source solution is one where the source code and other internal logic is hidden from the public.
Describe the models of systems development.	The waterfall model is a sequential development process that results in the development of a finished product. Developers may step back only one phase in the process if errors are discovered. The spiral model uses several iterations of the waterfall model to produce a number of fully specified and tested prototypes. Agile development models place an emphasis on the needs of the customer and quickly developing new functionality that meets those needs in an iterative fashion.
Describe the purpose of software development maturity models.	Maturity models help software organizations improve the maturity and quality of their software processes by implementing an evolutionary path from ad hoc, chaotic processes to mature, disciplined software processes.
Highly __________ objects are not as dependent on other objects.	cohesive
How many primary keys may each database table have?	One
In which phase of the Software Capability Maturity Model do you often find hardworking people charging ahead in a disorganized fashion?	Initial
Lower ___________ provides better software design because objects are more independent.	coupling
The Fagan code review process has six steps. Name them.	Planning Overview Preparation Inspection Rework Follow‐up
What acts as an interface between backend database systems and user applications?	ODBC
What are expert systems, machine learning, and neural networks, and how do they function?	Expert systems consist of two main components: a knowledge base that contains a series of “if/then” rules and an inference engine that uses that information to draw conclusions. Machine learning techniques attempt to algorithmically discover knowledge from datasets. Neural networks simulate the functioning of the human mind to a limited extent by arranging a series of layered calculations to solve problems. Neural networks require extensive training on a particular problem before they are able to offer solutions.
What are some security concerns due to design and coding flaws?	Certain attacks may result from poor design techniques, questionable implementation practices and procedures, poor or inadequate testing, code to circumvent access controls, login, or other security checks often added to code while under development which is not removed when put into production. Poor coding practices and lack of security consideration are common sources or causes of vulnerabilities that can be attributed to failures in design, implementation, prerelease code cleanup, or out‐and‐out coding mistakes.
What are the functions of SAMM?	The Software Assurance Maturity Model (SAMM) is an open source project with five business functions: Governance, Design, Implementation, Verification, and Operations.
What are the models of systems development?	The waterfall model describes a sequential development process that results in the development of a finished product. Developers may step back only one phase in the process if errors are discovered. The spiral model uses several iterations of the waterfall model to produce a number of fully specified and tested prototypes. Agile development models place an emphasis on the needs of the customer and quickly developing new functionality that meets those needs in an iterative fashion.
What are the phases of the IDEAL Model?	Initiating, Diagnosing, Establishing, Acting, and Learning.
What are the results or output exhibited by an object based on processing a message through a method?	Behavior
What are the roles of different coding tools in software development ecosystems?	Developers write code in different programming languages which is then either compiled into machine language or executed through an interpreter. Developers may make use of software development toolsets and integrated development environments to facilitate the code‐writing process. Software libraries create shared and reusable code, whereas code repositories provide a management platform for the software development process.
What are the six basic SQL commands?	Select , Update , Delete , Insert , Grant , and Revoke
What are the stages of the SW‐CMM?	The stages of the Software Capability Maturity Model (SW‐CMM) are Initial, Repeatable, Defined, Managed, and Optimizing.
What are the three major characteristics of a functional requirement?	Inputs, behaviors, and outputs
What are the two goals of SD3+C?	To reduce the number of security‐related design and coding defects, and to reduce the severity of any remaining defects
What are the typical stages of the information system life cycle?	Stakeholders' Needs and Requirements, Requirements Analysis, Architectural Design, Development/Implementation, Integration, Verification and Validation, Transition/Deployment, Operations and Maintenance/Sustainment, and Retirement/Disposal
What are the variations of storage types?	Primary versus secondary, volatile versus nonvolatile, and random versus sequential
What can be used to protect a company against the failure of a developer to provide adequate support?	Software escrow agreements
What characteristic describes an object that exhibits different behaviors based on the same message and methods because of variances in external conditions?	Polymorphism
What database security feature can be used to subvert aggregation, inferencing, and contamination vulnerabilities?	Database partitioning
What database security feature uses locking to prevent simultaneous write access to cells?	Concurrency
What feature of databases allows two or more rows in the same table to appear to have identical primary key elements but contain different data for use at differing classification levels?	Polyinstantiation
What is a code repository?	It acts as a central storage point for developers to place their source code. It may also provide version control, bug tracking, web hosting, release management, and communications functions that support software development.
What is a placeholder for SQL literal values such as numbers or character strings?	Bind variable
What is a type of bar chart that shows the interrelationships over time between projects and schedules?	Gantt chart
What is an API?	An application programming interface (API) allows application developers to bypass traditional web pages and interact directly with the underlying service through function calls.
What is big data?	Big data refers to collections of data that have become so large that traditional means of analysis or processing are ineffective, inefficient, and insufficient. Big data involves numerous difficult challenges, including collection, storage, analysis, mining, transfer, distribution, and results presentation.
What is data analytics?	Data analytics is the science of raw data examination with the focus of extracting useful information out of the bulk information set. The results of data analytics could focus on important outliers or exceptions to normal or standard items, a summary of all data items, or some focused extraction and organization of interesting information.
What is DevOps?	The word DevOps is a combination of Development and Operations, symbolizing that these functions must merge and cooperate to meet business requirements. The DevOps approach seeks to resolve these issues by bringing the three functions (software development, quality assurance, and technology operations) together in a single operational model.
What is DevSecOps?	DevSecOps approaches expand on the DevOps model by introducing security operations activities into the integrated model. Continuous integration and delivery (CI/CD) techniques automate the DevOps and DevSecOps pipelines.
What is it called when an object is an example of a class because the object contains a method from that class?	Instance
What is it called when programmers decompile vendor code in order to understand the intricate details of its functionality?	Reverse engineering
What is more secure than a data warehouse and designed to store metadata?	Data mart
What is Scaled Agile Framework (SAFe)?	SAFe is a comprehensive approach to applying agile principles and practices at the enterprise scale. Recognizing the complexities that larger organizations face, SAFe offers a structured framework to facilitate the use of Agile across multiple teams, often coordinating the efforts of hundreds or even thousands of practitioners.
What is Scrum?	Scrum is an organized approach to implementing the Agile philosophy. It relies on daily scrum meetings to organize and review work. Development focuses on short sprints of activity that deliver finished products. Integrated product teams (IPTs) are an early effort at this approach that was used by the U.S. Department of Defense.
What is the collection of the common methods from a set of objects that is used to define the behavior of those objects?	Class
What is the communication to or input of an object?	Message
What is the impact of acquired software on the organization?	Organizations may purchase commercial off‐the‐shelf (COTS) software to meet their requirements and they may also rely upon free open‐source software (OSS). All of this software expands the potential attack surface and requires security review and testing.
What is the internal code that defines the actions an object performs in response to a message?	Method
What is the purpose of assurance procedures?	To ensure that the security control mechanisms built into a new application properly implement the security policy throughout the life cycle of the system
What is the purpose of software development maturity models?	To help software organizations improve the maturity and quality of their software processes by implementing an evolutionary path from ad hoc, chaotic processes to mature, disciplined software processes
What security principle ensures that multiple records are created in a database table for viewing at different security levels?	Polyinstantiation
What security problem cannot be prevented or compensated for by environmental controls or hardware devices?	Bad coding
What type of application analyzes business data and presents it in such a way as to make business decisions easier for users?	Decision support system
What type of database key enforces relationships between tables?	Foreign key
What type of relationships can be established with relational databases? With hierarchical databases? With distributed databases?	One‐to‐one, one‐to‐many, and many‐to‐many
Why is it important to perform software testing to validate code before moving it into production?	Software testing techniques verify that code functions as designed and does not contain security flaws. Code review uses a peer review process to formally or informally validate code before deploying it in production. Interface testing assesses the interactions between components and users with API testing, user interface testing, and physical interface testing.
