Define “trust but verify.”	“Trust but verify” is a traditional security approach of trusting subjects and devices within the company's security perimeter automatically. This type of security approach leaves an organization vulnerable to insider attacks and grants intruders the ability to easily perform lateral movement among internal systems.
How are domains related to decentralized access control?	A domain is a realm of trust that shares a common security policy. This is a form of decentralized access control.
What access control technique employs security labels?	Mandatory access controls. Subjects are labeled as to their level of clearance. Objects are labeled as to their level of classification or sensitivity.
What are common authorization mechanisms?	Authorization ensures that the requested activity or object access is possible, given the authenticated identity's privileges. Common authorization mechanisms include implicit deny, access control lists, access control matrixes, capability tables, constrained interfaces, content‐dependent controls, and context‐dependent controls. These mechanisms enforce security principles such as need to know, the principle of least privilege, and separation of duties.
What are examples of rule‐based access control?	Attribute‐based access control, rule‐based access control, firewall rules
What are key concepts of the mandatory access control (MAC) model?	The MAC model uses labels to identify security domains. Subjects need matching labels to access objects. The MAC model enforces the need‐to‐know principle and supports a hierarchical environment, a compartmentalized environment, or a combination of both in a hybrid environment. It is frequently referred to as a lattice‐based model.
What are the key concepts of the attribute‐based access control (ABAC) model?	An ABAC model is an advanced implementation of a rule‐based access control model, applying rules based on attributes. Software‐defined networks (SDNs) often use an ABAC model.
What are the key concepts of the discretionary access control (DAC) model?	With the DAC model, all objects have owners, and the owners can modify permissions. Each object has an access control list defining permissions, such as read and modify for files. All other models are nondiscretionary models, and administrators centrally manage nondiscretionary controls.
What are the key concepts of the risk‐based access control model?	A risk‐based access control model evaluates the environment and the situation, and makes decisions based on software‐based security policies. It can control access based on multiple factors such as a user's location, determined by IP addresses, whether the user has logged on with multifactor authentication, and the user's device. Advanced implementations can use machine learning to evaluate risk.
What are the key concepts of the role‐based access control (RBAC) model?	RBAC models use task‐based roles, and users gain privileges when administrators place their accounts into a role or group. Taking a user out of a role removes the permissions granted through the role membership.
What are the key concepts of the rule‐based access control model?	Rule‐based access control models use a set of rules, restrictions, or filters to determine access. A firewall's access control list includes a list of rules that define what access is allowed and access is blocked.
What attack collects numerous low‐level security items or low‐value items and combines them to create something of a higher security level or value?	Aggregation
What form of access control can combine levels of security domains with compartments of additional control and isolation?	MAC (specifically, a hybrid MAC environment)
What form of access control is best suited to those organizations with a high rate of employee turnover?	RBAC
What form of password attack consists first of a dictionary attack and then a brute‐force attack based on the dictionary list?	A hybrid attack, sometimes called a one‐upped password attack
What is ABAC?	An advanced implementation of a rule‐BAC is an attribute‐based access control (ABAC) model. ABAC models use policies that include multiple attributes for rules. Many software‐defined networking applications use ABAC models.
What is application whitelisting or allow listing?	Application whitelisting or allow listing is a security option that prohibits unauthorized software from being able to execute. Whitelisting or allow listing is also known as deny by default or implicit deny. In application security, whitelisting prevents any and all software, including malware, from executing unless it's on the preapproved exception list: the whitelist or allow list.
What is the pass‐the‐hash attack?	Pass‐the‐hash attacks allow an attacker to impersonate a user with the captured hash of a user's password instead of the user's password. Pass‐the‐hash attacks typically exploit NTLM vulnerabilities, but attackers also use similar attacks against other protocols, including Kerberos.
What is the purpose of security controls?	Security controls use access rules to limit the access by a subject to an object.
What is zero trust?	Zero trust is a security concept where nothing inside the organization is automatically trusted. Each request for activity or access is assumed to be from an unknown and untrusted location until otherwise verified. The concept is “never trust, always verify.” The zero‐trust model is based on “assume breach” and microsegmentation.
What kind of access control enforces access policy determined by the owner of the object to which the control applies?	Discretionary access control (DAC)
What kind of access control is determined by the system in which the object resides rather than its owner?	Mandatory access control (MAC)
What kinds of items qualify as access controls?	Any hardware, software, or organizational administrative policy or procedure that maintains confidentiality, integrity, and/or accountability/accounting also counts as an access control.
What's the most desirable default setting for access control?	Denial. When access is not specifically granted, it should be denied by default. This is also known as implicit deny.
When evaluating access control attacks, what are three primary elements that must be identified?	Assets, threats, and vulnerabilities
Where are you most likely to see an ABAC model?	An attribute‐based access control (ABAC) model is typically implemented in software‐defined networks (SDNs).
Which access control scheme requires administrative rules to be defined along with the various conditions under which they apply as well as applicable object permissions?	Rule‐based access control
Which access control scheme requires organizational roles to be defined along with various task requirements and applicable object permissions?	Role‐based access control (RBAC)
Which type of controls considers static attributes of the subject and the object to determine the permissibility of an access?	Mandatory access controls
