Describe some JavaScript security concerns.	JavaScript is the most widely used scripting language in the world and is embedded into HTML documents. Whenever you allow code from an unknown and thus untrusted source to execute on your system, you are putting your system at risk of compromise.
How do antivirus software packages detect known viruses?	Most antivirus programs use signature‐based detection algorithms to look for telltale patterns of known viruses. This makes it essential to periodically update virus definition files in order to maintain protection against newly authored viruses as they emerge. Behavior‐based detection monitors target users and systems for unusual activity and either blocks it or flags it for investigation.
How do you protect your system from a malicious code incident?	Make sure your security policy restricts the introduction of untested files to your computer system. Have a good scanner with an up‐to‐date signature database. Frequently scan all files. Implement whitelisting or allow listing of applications.
What are botnets, botnet controllers, and bot herders?	Botnets represent significant threats due to the massive number of computers that can launch attacks, so it's important to know what they are. A botnet is a collection of compromised computing devices (often called bots or zombies) organized in a network controlled by a criminal known as a bot herder. Bot herders use a command‐and‐control server to remotely control the zombies and often use the botnet to launch attacks on other systems or send spam or phishing emails. Bot herders also rent botnet access out to other criminals.
What are computers in a botnet commonly called?	Zombies
What are methods used to block malicious code?	Malicious code is thwarted with a combination of tools. The obvious tool is antimalware software with up‐to‐date definitions installed on each system, at the boundary of the network, and on email servers. However, policies that enforce basic security principles such as the least privilege principle prevent regular users from installing potentially malicious software. Additionally, educating users about the risks and the methods attackers commonly use to spread viruses helps users understand and avoid dangerous behaviors.
What are the propagation techniques used by viruses?	Viruses use four main propagation techniques—file infection, service injection, boot sector infection, and macro infection—to penetrate systems and spread their malicious payloads. You need to understand these techniques to effectively protect systems on your network from malicious code.
What are the various types of application attacks attackers use to exploit poorly written software?	Application attacks are one of the greatest threats to modern computing. Attackers exploit buffer overflows, backdoors, time‐of‐check‐to‐time‐of‐use vulnerabilities, and rootkits to gain illegitimate access to a system. Security professionals must have a clear understanding of each of these attacks and associated countermeasures.
What can antivirus programs do when they encounter a virus infection?	Delete the file, disinfect the file, or quarantine the file.
What does malicious code often create on an infected system to allow the developers of the malicious code to remotely access the system at a later time?	Backdoor
What is a drive‐by download?	A drive‐by download is code downloaded and installed on a user's system without the user's knowledge. Attackers modify the code on a web page, and when the user visits, the code downloads and installs malware on the user's system without the user's knowledge or consent.
What is a homograph attack?	An attack that leverages similarities in character sets to register phony international domain names (IDNs) that to the naked eye appear legitimate
What is a rootkit?	A rootkit is malware that embeds itself deep within an OS. The term is a derivative of the concept of rooting and a utility kit of hacking tools. Rooting is gaining total or full control over a system.
What is clickjacking?	Clickjacking is a means to redirect a user's click or selection on a web page to an alternate often malicious target instead of the intended and desired location. One means of clickjacking is to add an invisible or hidden overlay, frame, or image map over the displayed page. The user sees the original page, but any mouse click or selection will be captured by the floating frame and redirected to the malicious target.
What is it called when malware is installed on a user's system after visiting a website?	Drive‐by download
What is malicious code?	Malicious code is any script or program that performs an unwanted, unauthorized, or unknown activity on a computer system.
What is privilege escalation?	Attackers use privilege escalation techniques to gain additional privileges after exploiting a single system. They typically try to gain additional privileges on the exploited systems first. They can also reach other systems in a network and attempt to gain elevated privileges on them. Limiting privileges given to service accounts reduces the success of some privilege escalation attacks. This includes minimizing the use of the sudo account.
What is sandboxing?	Sandboxing provides a security boundary for applications and prevents the application from interacting with other applications. Antimalware applications use sandboxing techniques to test unknown applications. If the application displays suspicious characteristics, the sandboxing technique prevents the application from infecting other applications or the operating system.
What is the term used to describe a secret method used by a programmer to gain access to the system?	Trap door (or back door)
What is the threat posed by ransomware?	Ransomware uses traditional malware techniques to infect a system and then encrypts data on that system using a key known only to the attacker. The attacker then demands payment of a ransom from the victim in exchange for providing the decryption key.
What is URL hijacking?	URL hijacking refers to the practice of displaying a link or advertisement that looks like that of a well‐known product, service, or site, but when clicked redirects the user to an alternate location, service, or product. This may be accomplished by posting sites and pages and exploiting search engine optimization (SEO), or through the use of adware that replaces legitimate ads and links with those leading to alternate or malicious locations.
What three generic elements can help prevent malware infections?	Education, policies, and tools
What type of malicious code launches itself when certain conditions (such as a specific date) are met?	Logic bomb
What type of malicious code spreads through the sharing of infected media?	Viruses
What type of virus embeds itself in application documents?	Macro virus
What type of virus modifies itself each time it infects a new system in an attempt to avoid detection?	Polymorphic virus
Which form of antivirus response not only removes the virus from the system but also repairs any related damage?	Cleaning
Why is antivirus protection important?	Malware is the most common form of security breach in the IT world. Any communications pathway can be and is being exploited as a delivery mechanism for a virus or other malicious code.
