Describe the three aspects of test communications.	Before embarking on any test, it's essential to inform all stakeholders about what to expect. This includes giving them an idea of the scheduled timing. During the test, especially ones that might disrupt normal operations, regular updates are crucial. Post‐test, a debriefing session provides an opportunity for discussing the outcomes of the test, highlighting both the successes and pinpointing areas that need improvement.
How might you describe a site housed in self‐contained transportable units with all the control, hardware, and software elements necessary to establish an operational, safe computing environment?	Mobile site
It is sometimes useful to separate disaster ___________________ tasks from disaster ___________________ tasks.	recovery, restoration (in either order)
True or false? There is an accepted standards document defining the requirements for an electronic vaulting solution.	False
What are MTTF, MTTR, and MTBF?	Mean time to failure (MTTF) is the expected typical functional lifetime of the device given a specific operating environment. Mean time to repair (MTTR) is the average length of time required to perform a repair on the device. Mean time between failures (MTBF) is an estimation of the time between the first and any subsequent failures.
What are snapshots?	Snapshots are backups of virtual machines. They offer a quick means to recover from errors or poor updates. It's often easier and faster to make backups of entire virtual systems rather than the equivalent native hardware installed system.
What are some examples of alternate processing facilities that should be considered when designing a DRP?	Hot, warm, and cold sites; mobile sites; service bureaus; multiple sites; and reciprocal agreements/mutual assistance agreements (MAAs)
What are some of the elements that should be included in emergency response guidelines?	Immediate response procedures, notification procedures, and secondary response procedures
What are the five types of disaster recovery plan tests and the impact each has on normal business operations?	Read‐through tests, structured walk‐throughs, simulation tests, parallel tests, and full‐interruption tests. Checklist tests are purely paperwork exercises, whereas structured walk‐throughs involve a project team meeting. Neither has an impact on business operations. Simulation tests may shut down noncritical business units. Parallel tests involve relocating personnel but do not affect day‐to‐day operations. Full‐interruption tests involve shutting down primary systems and shifting responsibility to the recovery facility.
What are the major elements in a disaster recovery program?	Disaster recovery (DR) programs should take a comprehensive approach to planning and include considerations related to the initial response effort, personnel involved, communication among the team and with internal and external entities, assessment of response efforts and restoration of services. DR programs should also include training and awareness efforts to ensure personnel understand their responsibilities and lessons learned sessions to continuously improve the program.
What are the technologies that may assist with database backup?	Databases benefit from three backup technologies. Electronic vaulting is used to transfer database backups to a remote site as part of a bulk transfer. In remote journaling, data transfers occur on a more frequent basis. With remote mirroring technology, database transactions are mirrored at the backup site in real time.
What are the three major options for alternative processing sites?	Hot sites, warm sites, and cold sites
What are the three major types of filesystem backups?	Full backups, incremental backups, and differential backups
What backup media may be appropriate for personal backups but not for network backups?	Writable CDs, DVDs, and Blu‐ray discs as well as flash drives. These and similar types of smaller capacity storage mechanisms are useful for holding smaller amounts of data than when compared to enterprise options such as multiterabyte hard drives and tapes.
What does DRP stand for, and what does it mean?	Disaster recovery planning (DRP) is the practice of establishing and executing recovery actions as part of an emergency response following a disaster.
What form of backup, when used to restore data, will always result in some amount of data loss?	Periodic backups
What forms of backup always set the archive bit to 0?	Full and incremental
What is a failover cluster?	A failover cluster includes two or more servers, and if one of the servers fails, another server in the cluster can take over its load in an automatic process called failover. Failover clusters can include multiple servers (not just two), and they can also provide fault tolerance for multiple services or applications.
What is always your top priority when dealing with a disaster of any type or significance?	Safety of personnel
What is system resilience?	System resilience refers to the ability of a system to maintain an acceptable level of service during an adverse event. This could be a hardware fault managed by fault‐tolerant components, or it could be an attack managed by other controls such as effective intrusion detection and prevention systems.
What is the first thing you should do when a disaster strikes?	Ensure that people are safe.
What is the form of new system deployment testing called when the new system and the old system are run simultaneously?	Parallel run
What is the importance of prepping for equipment failure?	No matter the quality of the equipment your organization chooses to purchase and install, eventually it will fail. Preparing for equipment failure may include purchasing replacement parts, storing equipment, or having an SLA with a vendor.
What is the most common cause of unplanned downtime?	Hardware failures
What is used to provide fault tolerance for a disk subsystem?	Redundant array of independent disks (RAID)
What is used to provide fault tolerance for a server?	Failover cluster
What is used to provide long‐term fault tolerance for a power failure?	Generator
What is used to provide short‐term fault tolerance for a power failure?	Uninterruptible power supply (UPS)
What kind of strategy drives defining practices, policies, and procedures to restore a business to normal operation in the wake of some kind of outage or disaster?	Recovery strategy
What label applies to a partial standby facility for which power and other infrastructure elements are available, but for which no operational computing facilities are supplied in advance of a disaster?	Cold site
What label applies to a site that is already provisioned with hardware and software to take over for a primary facility but that needs to obtain and install a backup or image of client‐specific data before going online?	Warm site
What label applies to a standby facility that is ready to take over for a primary facility as soon as notice is received that the primary facility has gone down?	Hot site
What process brings order to the chaotic events surrounding the interruption of an organization's normal activities by an emergency?	Disaster recovery planning (DRP)
What roles can a service bureau play in disaster recovery?	Service bureaus lease computer time via contractual agreements and can meet an organization's entire IT needs in the event of disaster or catastrophic failure.
What term describes damage from disruptive and irresistible forces of nature (such as earthquakes, floods, storms, and so on)?	Natural disaster
What term describes damage resulting from arson, human error, acts of terrorism, or power outages and other utility failures?	Human‐made or person‐made disaster
What type of disaster recovery separates recovery sites by business teams?	Workgroup recovery
What type of recovery site is particularly suited to workgroup recovery options?	Mobile site
