Define blockchain.	A collection or ledger of records, transactions, operations, or other events that are verified using hashing, timestamps, and transaction data
Explain the cryptographic attacks: adversary‐in‐the‐middle (AitM), birthday attack, and replay attack.	The adversary‐in‐the‐middle (AitM), man‐in‐the‐middle (MitM), or on‐path, attack fools both parties into communicating with the attacker instead of directly with each other. The birthday attack is an attempt to find collisions in hash functions. The replay attack is an attempt to reuse authentication requests.
Explain the cryptographic attacks: ciphertext‐only attacks, brute‐force attack, frequency analysis, and known plain text, chosen ciphertext, and chosen plain‐text attacks.	Ciphertext‐only attacks require access only to the ciphertext of a message. One example of a ciphertext‐only attack is the brute‐force attack, which attempts to randomly find the correct cryptographic key. Frequency analysis, another ciphertext‐only attack, counts characters in the ciphertext to reverse substitution ciphers. Known plain text, chosen ciphertext, and chosen plain‐text attacks require the attacker to have some extra information in addition to the ciphertext.
How are digital signatures generated and verified?	To digitally sign a message, first use a hashing function to generate a message digest; then encrypt the digest with your private key. To verify the digital signature on a message, decrypt the signature with the sender's public key and then compare the message digest to one you generate yourself. If they match, the message is authentic.
How can cryptosystems be used to achieve authentication goals?	Authentication provides assurances as to the identity of a user. One possible scheme that uses authentication is the challenge‐response protocol, in which the remote user is asked to encrypt a message using a key known only to the communicating parties. Authentication can be achieved with both symmetric and asymmetric cryptosystems.
How do salt and pepper thwart password attacks?	Salting adds additional bits to a password before hashing it and helps thwart rainbow table attacks. Some algorithms, such as Argon2, bcrypt, and Password‐Based Key Derivation Function 2 (PBKDF2), add the salt and repeat the hashing functions many times. Salts are stored in the same database as the hashed password. A pepper is a large constant number used to increase the security of the hashed password further, and it is stored somewhere outside the database holding the hashed passwords.
How do salts improve the security of password hashing?	When straightforward hashing is used to store passwords in a password file, attackers may use rainbow tables of precomputed values to identify commonly used passwords. Adding salts to the passwords before hashing them reduces the effectiveness of rainbow table attacks. Common password hashing algorithms that use key stretching to further increase the difficulty of attack include PBKDF2, bcrypt, and scrypt.
If a message is signed and encrypted, what security services are you providing?	Confidentiality, integrity, authenticity/access control, and nonrepudiation
In 2012, the committee overseeing the development of SHA‐3 made what announcement?	In 2012, the federal government design committee announced the selection of the Keccak algorithm as the SHA‐3 standard. However as of mid‐2015, the SHA‐3 standard remains in draft form and some technical details still require finalization.
True or false? PEM provides protection against replay attacks.	False
True or false? S‐HTTP secures individual messages between a client and a server.	True
True or false? The Hashed Message Authentication Code (HMAC) provides nonrepudiation.	False
What acts as a placeholder variable in mathematical functions and is used in random number generation?	Nonce
What are often added to passwords to make their resultant hash secure and resistant to rainbow attacks?	Salts
What are often added to passwords under Linux to make their resultant hash even more secure?	Salts
What are possible mechanisms for adding security to email?	S/MIME, MOSS, PEM, and PGP
What are some common reasons a certificate might need to be revoked?	The certificate was compromised, the certificate was erroneously issued, the certificate details changed, the private key was exposed, or there was a change of security association.
What are the common applications of cryptography to secure email?	The emerging standard for encrypted messages is the S/MIME protocol. Another popular email security tool is Phil Zimmerman's Pretty Good Privacy (PGP). Most users of email encryption rely on having this technology built into their email client or their web‐based email service.
What are the common applications of cryptography to secure networking?	The IPsec protocol standard provides a common framework for encrypting network traffic and is built into a number of common operating systems. In IPsec transport mode, packet contents are encrypted for peer‐to‐peer communication. In tunnel mode, the entire packet, including header information, is encrypted for gateway‐to‐gateway communications.
What are the common applications of cryptography to secure web activity?	The de facto standard for secure web traffic is the use of HTTP over Transport Layer Security (TLS). This approach relies on hybrid cryptography using asymmetric cryptography to exchange an ephemeral session key, which is then used to carry on symmetric cryptography for the remainder of the session.
What are the four components of IPSec?	Authentication Header (AH), Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP), IP Payload Compression protocol (IPComp), and Internet Key Exchange (IKE)
What are the fundamental requirements of a hash function?	Good hash functions have five requirements. They must allow input of any length, provide fixed‐length output, make it relatively easy to compute the hash function for any input, provide one‐way functionality, and be collision‐resistant.
What are the hashing algorithms in primary use today?	The successors to the Secure Hash Algorithm (SHA), SHA‐2 and SHA‐3, make up the government standard message digest function. SHA‐2 supports variable‐length message digests, ranging up to 512 bits. SHA‐3 improves upon the security of SHA‐2 and supports the same hash lengths.
What are the key types used in asymmetric cryptography?	Public keys are freely shared among communicating parties, whereas private keys are kept secret. To encrypt a message, use the recipient's public key. To decrypt a message, use your own private key. To sign a message, use your own private key. To validate a signature, use the sender's public key.
What are the three encryption algorithms supported by the Digital Signature Standard?	RSA, ECDSA, and EdDSA
What are the three major public key cryptosystems?	RSA is the most famous public key cryptosystem; it was developed by Rivest, Shamir, and Adleman in 1977. It depends on the difficulty of factoring the product of prime numbers. ElGamal is an extension of the Diffie–Hellman key exchange algorithm that depends on modular arithmetic. The elliptic curve algorithm depends on the elliptic curve discrete logarithm problem and provides more security than other algorithms when both are used with keys of the same length.
What are the two modes available through IPSec, and what do they do?	In transport mode, the IP packet data is encrypted, but the header is not. In tunnel mode, the entire IP packet is encrypted, and a new header is added to govern transmission through the tunnel.
What attack is often successful against polyalphabetic substitution ciphers?	Period analysis
What attack is often successful against substitution ciphers?	Frequency analysis
What cryptographic attack attempts to exploit weaknesses in the computer hardware or operating system?	Statistical attack
What cryptographic attack attempts to find a weakness in the algorithm?	Analytic attack
What cryptographic attack attempts to find a weakness in the software code?	Implementation attack
What form of encryption can provide secure communications between two parties when they have no prior method of communicating securely?	Asymmetric cryptography
What is a concept of communication whereby a specific type of information is exchanged but no real data is exchanged?	Zero‐knowledge proof
What is a cryptographic salt and what is it used for?	The cryptographic salt is a random value that is added to the end of the password before the operating system hashes the password. The salt is then stored in the password file along with the hash. It is used to help combat the use of brute‐force attacks, including those aided by dictionaries and rainbow tables.
What is a way of measuring the strength of a cryptography system by measuring the effort in terms of cost and/or time?	Work function or work factor
What is an example of split knowledge employed to protect key escrow?	M of N control
What is an HSM?	A hardware security module (HSM) is a cryptoprocessor used to manage/store digital encryption keys, accelerate crypto operations, support faster digital signatures, and improve authentication.
What is FIPS‐186‐5?	FIPS‐186‐5 is the Digital Signature Standard (DSS). It specifies algorithms for use as digital signatures: Rivest–Shamir–Adleman (RSA), Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm (ECDSA), and Edwards Curve Digital Signature Algorithm (EdDSA).
What is public key infrastructure (PKI)?	In the public key infrastructure, certificate authorities (CAs) generate digital certificates containing the public keys of system users. Users then distribute these certificates to people with whom they want to communicate. Certificate recipients verify a certificate using the CA's public key.
What is the Diffie‐Hellman algorithm most commonly used for?	Key exchange
What is the process by which you are issued a digital certificate?	Enrollment
What is the purpose of a cryptographic pepper?	A pepper can be added to a salt to add additional protection for passwords.
What is the purpose of a cryptographic salt?	A salt adds extra bits to a password before hashing it to protect against rainbow table attacks.
What is the role that confidentiality, integrity, and nonrepudiation play in cryptosystems?	Confidentiality is one of the major goals of cryptography. It protects the secrecy of data while it is both at rest and in transit. Integrity provides the recipient of a message with the assurance that data was not altered (intentionally or unintentionally) between the time it was created and the time it was accessed. Nonrepudiation provides undeniable proof that the sender of a message actually authored it. It prevents the sender from subsequently denying that they sent the original message.
What ITU standard describes the contents of a digital certificate?	X.509
What protocol uses the RSA encryption algorithm to provide encrypted mail support for a number of common commercial email packages?	S/MIME
What term describes a mathematical function that easily produces output values for each possible combination of inputs but makes it impossible to retrieve the input values?	One‐way function
What type of attack is thwarted with the use of bcrypt?	Rainbow table attacks. Bcrypt salts passwords.
What type of cryptographic attack is used against algorithms that don't incorporate temporal protections?	Replay attack
What type of cryptography relies on the use of public and private keys?	Asymmetric
Which IPSec protocol provides integrity, authentication, and replay protection to the secure message exchange?	Authentication Header (AH)
Who issues digital certificates?	Certificate authorities (CAs)
