Define cloud solution.	A cloud solution is a deployment concept where an organization contracts with a third‐party cloud provider. The cloud provider owns, operates, and maintains the hardware and software. The organization pays a monthly fee (often based on a per‐user multiplier) to use the cloud solution.
Define COPE.	The concept of COPE (company‐owned, personally enabled) is for the organization to purchase devices and provide them to employees. Each user is then able to customize the device and use it for both work activities and personal activities.
Define CYOD.	The concept of CYOD (choose your own device) provides users with a list of approved devices from which to select the device to implement. A CYOD can be implemented so that employees purchase their own devices from the approved list (a BYOD variant) or the company can purchase the devices for the employees (a COPE variant).
Define hosted solution.	A hosted solution is a deployment concept where the organization must license software and then operates and maintains the software. The hosting provider owns, operates, and maintains the hardware that supports the organization's software.
Define on‐premise solution.	An on‐premise solution is the traditional deployment concept in which an organization owns the hardware, licenses the software, and operates and maintains the systems on its own usually within their own building.
Describe large‐scale parallel data systems.	Systems designed to perform numerous calculations simultaneously include SMP, AMP, and MPP. Grid computing is a form of parallel distributed processing that loosely groups a significant number of processing nodes to work toward a specific processing goal. Peer‐to‐peer (P2P) technologies are networking and distributed application solutions that share tasks and workloads among peers.
Describe the concept of a corporate‐owned mobile strategy.	A corporate‐owned mobile strategy is when the company purchases the mobile devices that can support security compliance with the security policy. These devices are to be used exclusively for company purposes, and users should not perform any personal tasks on the devices. This often requires workers to carry a second device for personal use.
Describe the different characteristics of storage devices used by computers.	Primary storage is the same as memory. Secondary storage consists of magnetic, flash, and optical media that must be first read into primary memory before the CPU can use the data. Random access storage devices can be read at any point, whereas sequential access devices require scanning through all the data physically stored before the desired location.
Describe the different types of memory used by a computer.	ROM is nonvolatile and can't be written to by the end user. Data can be written to PROM chips only once. EPROM/UVEPROM chips may be erased with ultraviolet light. EEPROM chips may be erased with electrical current. RAM chips are volatile and lose their contents when the computer is powered off.
Explain the differences between multitasking, multicore, multiprocessing, multiprogramming, and multithreading.	Multitasking is the simultaneous execution of more than one application and is managed by the OS. Multicore is the presence of multiple execution cores in a single CPU. Multiprocessing is the use of more than one processor to increase computing power. Multiprogramming is similar to multitasking and involves the pseudo‐simultaneous execution of two tasks on a single processor coordinated by the OS as a way to increase operational efficiency. Multithreading permits multiple concurrent tasks to be performed within a single process.
In what two ways can storage devices be accessed?	Randomly and sequentially
Magnetic/optical media devices are classified as what type of memory?	Secondary
Memory devices designed to retain their data when power is removed are known as ___________________.	nonvolatile
Name five generic terms that refer to mobile phones, tablets, and other similar devices.	A device owned by an individual can be referenced using any of these terms: portable device, mobile device, personal mobile device (PMD), personal electronic device or portable electronic device (PED), and personally owned device (POD).
Name some security issues surrounding memory components.	Some security issues surround memory components: the fact that data may remain on the chip after power is removed and the control of access to memory in a multiuser system.
What addressing scheme supplies the CPU with the actual address of the memory location to be accessed?	Direct addressing
What are common elements of a mobile device deployment policy?	A mobile device deployment policy should address data ownership, support ownership, patch and update management, security product management, forensics, privacy, onboarding/offboarding, adherence to corporate policies, user acceptance, architecture/infrastructure considerations, legal concerns, acceptable use policies, onboard cameras/video, recording microphone, Wi‐Fi Direct, tethering and hotspots, and contactless payment methods.
What are distributed systems?	A distributed system or a distributed computing environment (DCE) is a collection of individual systems that work together to support a resource or provide a service. The primary security concern is the interconnectedness of the components.
What are embedded systems and static environment security concerns?	Static environments, embedded systems, network‐enabled devices, cyber‐physical systems, HPC systems, edge computing devices, and fog computing devices, mobile devices, and other limited or single‐purpose computing environments need security management. These techniques may include network segmentation, security layers, application firewalls, manual updates, firmware version control, wrappers, and control redundancy and diversity.
What are HPC systems?	High‐performance computing (HPC) systems are computing platforms designed to perform complex calculations or data manipulations at extremely high speeds. Super computers and massively parallel processing (MPP) solutions are common examples of HPC systems.
What are microservices?	A microservice an architectural style in software development where an application is structured as a collection of small, independently deployable, and loosely coupled services. Each service, often referred to as a microservice, represents a specific business capability and operates as a self‐contained unit with its own database and communication mechanisms.
What are parallel data systems?	Parallel data systems or parallel computing is a computation system design to perform numerous calculations simultaneously. They often include the concept of dividing up asks into smaller elements, then distributing each subelement to a different processing subsystem for parallel computation. This implementation is based on the idea that some problems can be solved efficiently if they are broken into smaller tasks that can be worked on concurrently.
What are security risks that input and output devices can pose?	Input/output devices can be subject to eavesdropping and tapping, are subject to shoulder surfing, are used to smuggle data out of an organization, or are used to create unauthorized, insecure points of entry into an organization's systems and networks. Be prepared to recognize and mitigate such vulnerabilities.
What are smart devices?	Smart devices are a range of devices that offer the user a plethora of customization options, typically through installing apps, and that may take advantage of on‐device or in‐the‐cloud machine learning (ML) processing.
What are some benefits of virtualization?	Being able to launch individual instances of servers or services as needed, real‐time scalability, and being able to run the exact needed OS version for the needed application
What are some elements of mobile device security?	Device authentication, full‐device encryption, communication protection, remote wiping, device lockout, screen locks, location services management, content management, application control, push notification management, third‐party app store control, storage segmentation, asset tracking and inventory control, removable storage, connection methods management, deactivating features, rooting/jailbreaking, sideloading, custom firmware, carrier unlocking, OTA updates, key & credential management, and text messaging security.
What are some issues or concerns regarding cloud computing?	Privacy concerns, regulation compliance difficulties, use of open/closed source solutions, adoption of open standards, and whether or not cloud‐based data is actually secured (or even securable)
What are some security issues of virtualization?	Virtualization doesn't lessen the security management requirements of an OS. Thus, patch management is still essential. It's important to protect the stability of the host. Organizations should maintain backups of their virtual assets. Virtualized systems should be security tested. VM sprawl occurs when an organization deploys numerous virtual machines without an overarching IT management or security plan in place.
What are three forms of ICS?	There are several forms of ICS, including distributed control systems (DCSs), programmable logic controllers (PLCs), and supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA).
What are VDI and VMI?	Virtual desktop infrastructure (VDI) is a means to reduce the security risk and performance requirements of end devices by hosting desktop/workstation OS virtual machines on central servers that are remotely accessed by users. Virtual mobile infrastructure (VMI) is where the OS of a mobile device is virtualized on a central server.
What can be used to remove data on a lost smartphone?	Remote wipe
What is a cloud access security broker (CASB)?	A cloud access security broker (CASB) is a security policy enforcement solution that may be installed on‐premises, or it may be cloud‐based. The goal of a CASB is to enforce and ensure that proper security measures are implemented between a cloud solution and a customer organization.
What is a community cloud?	A community cloud is a cloud environment maintained, used, and paid for by a group of users or organizations for their shared benefit, such as collaboration and data exchange. This may allow for some cost savings compared to accessing private or public clouds independently.
What is a cyber‐physical system?	Cyber‐physical system is a term used to refer to devices that offer a computational means to control something in the physical world. In the past these might have been referred to as embedded systems, but the category of cyber‐physical seems to focus more on the physical world results rather than the computational aspects.
What is a guest OS?	Virtualization technology is used to host one or more operating systems within the memory of a single host computer. This mechanism allows virtually any OS to operate on any hardware. Such an OS is also known as a guest operating system. From the perspective that there is an original or host OS installed directly on the computer hardware, the additional OSs hosted by the hypervisor system are guests.
What is a hybrid cloud?	A combination of two or more private, public, and/or community clouds
What is a microcontroller?	A microcontroller is similar to but less complex than a system on a chip (SoC). A microcontroller may be a component of an SoC. A microcontroller is a small computer consisting of a CPU (with one or more cores), memory, various input/output capabilities, RAM, and often nonvolatile storage in the form of flash or ROM/PROM/EEPROM. Examples include Raspberry Pi, Arduino, and FPGA.
What is a physically unclonable function (PUF)?	A physically unclonable function (PUF) is a specialized physical electronic component or function that generates a unique, unpredictable digital identifier based on the inherent physical properties of the component. PUFs are used to provide a hardware‐based security feature by creating a unique fingerprint for electronic devices or integrated circuits.
What is a PLC?	Programmable logic controller (PLC) units are effectively single‐purpose or focused‐purpose digital computers. They are typically deployed for the management and automation of various industrial electromechanical operations, such as controlling systems on an assembly line or a large‐scale digital light display.
What is a private cloud?	A private cloud is a cloud service within a corporate network and isolated from the Internet.
What is a public cloud?	A public cloud is a cloud service that is accessible to the general public, typically over an Internet connection. Public cloud services may require some form of subscription or pay per use or may be offered for free.
What is a smart device?	Smart devices are a range of mobile devices that offer the user a plethora of customization options, typically through installing apps, and may take advantage of on‐device or in‐the‐cloud artificial intelligence (AI) processing.
What is a static system?	A static system or static environment is a set of conditions, events, and surroundings that don't change. In theory, once understood, a static environment doesn't offer new or surprising elements. A static IT environment is any system that is intended to remain unchanged by users and administrators. The goal is to prevent or at least reduce the possibility of a user implementing change that could result in reduced security or functional operation.
What is a valid security response when an application violates OS‐imposed security, such as interfering with other processes or accessing hardware directly?	Stopping the environment, a STOP error, a blue screen of death (BSOD)
What is a virtual private cloud (VPC)?	A VPC is a virtualized network infrastructure provided by a cloud computing service provider. It allows users to create and manage isolated, logically segmented networks within the public cloud environment. A VPC enables organizations to host their applications and resources in a secure and dedicated space in the cloud while maintaining control over network configuration.
What is a virtualized network?	A virtualized network or network virtualization is the combination of hardware and software networking components into a single integrated entity. Examples include software‐defined networks (SANs), VLANs, VPNs, virtual switches, virtual SANs, guest operating systems, port isolation, and NAT.
What is an edge network?	An edge network is a carefully designed data architecture that strategically allocates computing resources to edge devices within a network. This design helps distribute processing power demands away from central servers, empowering the devices to handle a significant portion of the processing workload. Edge networks are designed to bring content, services, and applications closer to the users to reduce latency and improve performance.
What is an embedded system?	An embedded system is a computer implemented as part of a larger system. The embedded system is typically designed around a limited set of specific functions in relation to the larger product of which it's a component. It may consist of the same components found in a typical computer system, or it may be a microcontroller. Examples of embedded systems include network‐attached printers, smart TVs, HVAC controls, smart appliances, smart thermostats, Ford SYNC (a Microsoft‐embedded system in vehicles), and medical devices.
What is an ICS?	An industrial control system (ICS) is a form of computer‐management device that controls industrial processes and machines (aka operational technology (OT)). ICS examples include distributed control systems (DCSs), programmable logic controllers (PLCs), and supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA). ICSs are used across a wide range of industries, including manufacturing, fabrication, electricity generation and distribution, water distribution, sewage processing, and oil refining.
What is Android (the OS)?	Android is a mobile device OS based on Linux, which was acquired by Google in 2005. The Android source code is made open source through the Apache license, but most devices also include proprietary software. Although it's mostly intended for use on phones and tablets, Android is being used on a wide range of devices, including televisions, game consoles, digital cameras, microwaves, watches, e‐readers, cordless phones, and ski goggles.
What is another term for the master boot record?	Boot sector
What is another term often used for firmware?	Microcode
What is bricking?	Refers to rendering a device completely nonfunctional or as useless as a brick, typically through a malfunction or intentional action. When a device is “bricked,” it loses its normal functionality and becomes inoperable, often requiring significant efforts to restore its original state.
What is BYOD?	Bring‐your‐own‐device (BYOD) is a policy that allows employees to bring their own personal mobile devices to work and use those devices to connect to (or through) the company network to business resources and/or the Internet. Although BYOD may improve employee morale and job satisfaction, it increases security risk to the organization.
What is cloud computing?	A concept of computing where processing and storage are performed elsewhere over a network connection rather than locally
What is cloud storage?	Cloud storage is the idea of using storage capacity provided by a cloud vendor as a means to host data files for an organization. Cloud storage can be used as form of backup or support for online data services. Cloud storage may be cost effective, but it is not always high speed or low latency.
What is COMS?	A corporate‐owned mobile strategy (COMS) or corporate‐owned, business‐only (COBO) strategy is when the company purchases the mobile devices that can support security compliance with the security policy. These devices are to be used exclusively for company purposes, and users should not perform any personal tasks on the devices. This often requires workers to carry a second device for personal use.
What is containerization?	Containerization or OS virtualization is based on the concept of eliminating the duplication of OS elements in a virtual machine. Each application is placed into a container that includes only the actual resources needed to support the enclosed application, and the common or shared OS elements are then part of the hypervisor.
What is CORBA?	Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) is an international standard (sanctioned by the International Organization for Standardization) for distributed computing.
What is data localization?	Data localization refers to storing and processing data within a specific country's or region's physical borders or geographical boundaries. This concept is often driven by regulatory requirements or government policies that mandate certain data, especially sensitive or personal information, to be kept within the jurisdiction's borders where it was generated or where the data subject resides.
What is data sovereignty?	Data sovereignty is the concept that digital data is subject to the laws and regulations of the country or region in which it is located or originates. It emphasizes that governments have authority over the data collected within their jurisdiction, and organizations must comply with local data protection and privacy laws.
What is DNP3?	DNP3 (Distributed Network Protocol) is a multilayer protocol primarily used in the electric and water utility and management industries. It is used to support communications between data acquisition systems and the system control equipment. DNP3 is an open and public standard. DNP3 is a multilayer protocol that functions similarly to TCP/IP, in that it has link, transport, and transportation layers.
What is edge computing?	Edge computing is a philosophy of network design where data and the compute resources are located as close as possible in order to optimize bandwidth use while minimizing latency. In edge computing, the intelligence and processing are contained within each device. Thus, rather than having to send data off to a master processing entity, each device can process its own data locally.
What is endpoint security?	The concept that each individual device must maintain local security whether or not its network or telecommunications channels provide or offer security. Sometimes this is expressed as the end device is responsible for its own security.
What is flash memory?	Flash memory is a derivative concept from EEPROM. It is a nonvolatile form of storage media that can be electronically erased and rewritten. The primary difference between EEPROM and flash memory is that EEPROM must be fully erased to be rewritten, while flash memory can be erased and written in blocks or pages.
What is fog computing?	Fog computing is another example of advanced computation architectures, which is also often used as an element in an IIoT deployment. Fog computing relies on sensors, IoT devices, or even edge computing devices to collect data, and then transfer it back to a central location for processing. Thus, intelligence and processing is centralized.
What is geotagging?	Mobile devices with GPS support enable the embedding of geographical location (geotagging) in the form of latitude and longitude as well as date/time information on photos taken with these devices.
What is grid computing?	Grid computing is a form of parallel distributed processing that loosely groups a significant number of processing nodes toward the completion of a specific processing goal.
What is IaaS?	Infrastructure as a service (IaaS) takes the platform as a service (PaaS) model another step forward. It provides not just on‐demand operating solutions but complete outsourcing options as well. This can include utility or metered computing services, administrative task automation, dynamic scaling, virtualization services, policy implementation and management services, and managed/filtered Internet connectivity.
What is IaC?	Infrastructure as code (IaC) is a change in how hardware management is perceived and handled. Instead of seeing hardware configuration as a manual, direct hands‐on, one‐on‐one administration hassle, it is viewed as just another collection of elements to be managed in the same way that software and code are managed under DevSecOps (development, security, and operations).
What is IIoT?	Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) is a derivative of IoT that focuses on industrial, engineering, manufacturing, or infrastructure level oversight, automation, management, and sensing. IIoT is an evolution of ICS and DCS that integrates cloud services to perform data collection, analysis, optimization, and automation.
What is iOS?	iOS is the mobile device OS from Apple that is available on the iPhone. iOS isn't licensed for use on any non‐Apple hardware. Thus, Apple is in full control of the features and capabilities of iOS.
What is IoT?	The Internet of Things (IoT) is a class of devices that are internet‐connected in order to provide automation, remote control, or AI processing to appliances or devices. The security issues related to IoT often relate to access and encryption.
What is MDM?	Mobile device management (MDM) is a software solution to the task of managing the myriad mobile devices that employees use to access company resources. The goals of MDM are to improve security, provide monitoring, enable remote management, and support troubleshooting. Many MDM solutions support a wide range of devices and can operate across many service providers. You can use MDM to push or remove apps, manage data, and enforce configuration settings both over the air (across a carrier network) and over Wi‐Fi connections.
What is Modbus?	Modbus is a widely used communication protocol in industrial automation and control systems. Developed by Modicon (now part of Schneider Electric) in 1979, Modbus has become a de facto standard for connecting and managing devices within industrial environments. It provides a common language for different devices to exchange data and commands, facilitating communication in supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) systems, programmable logic controllers (PLCs), and other industrial applications.
What is PaaS?	Platform as a service (PaaS) is the concept of providing a computing platform and software solution stack as a virtual or cloud‐based service.
What is remote wiping?	Remote wipe lets you delete all data and possibly even configuration settings from a device remotely. The wipe process can be triggered over mobile phone service or sometimes over any Internet connection.
What is RTOS?	A real‐time operating system (RTOS) is designed to process or handle data as it arrives on the system with minimal latency or delay. An RTOS is usually stored on read‐only memory (ROM) and is designed to operate in a hard real‐time or soft real‐time condition.
What is SaaS?	Software as a service (SaaS) is a derivative of platform as a service (PaaS). Software as a service provides on‐demand online access to specific software applications or suites without the need for local installation (or even local hardware and OS requirements in many cases).
What is SCADA?	Supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) systems can operate as a stand‐alone device, be networked together with other SCADA systems, or be networked with traditional IT systems. Most SCADA systems are designed with minimal human interfaces. Often, they use mechanical buttons and knobs or simple LCD screen interfaces.
What is SDDC?	Software‐defined data center (SDDC) or virtual data center (VDC) is the concept of replacing physical IT elements with solutions provided virtually, and often by an external third party, such as a cloud service provider (CSP).
What is SDx?	Software‐defined everything (SDx) refers to a trend of replacing hardware with software using virtualization. SDx includes virtualization, virtualized software, virtual networking, containerization, serverless architecture, infrastructure as code, SDN, VSAN, software‐defined storage (SDS), VDI, VMI, SDV, and software‐defined data center (SDDC).
What is security as a service (SECaaS)?	Security as a service (SECaaS) is a cloud provider concept in which security is provided to an organization through or by an online entity. The purpose of an SECaaS solution is to reduce the cost and overhead of implementing and managing security locally.
What is serverless architecture?	Serverless architecture is a cloud computing concept where code is managed by the customer and the platform (i.e., supporting hardware and software) or server is managed by the cloud service provider (CSP). There is always a physical server running the code, but this execution model allows the software designer/architect/programmer/developer to focus on the logic of their code and not have to be concerned about the parameters or limitations of a specific server. This is also known as function as a service (FaaS).
What is services integration?	Services integration, cloud integration, systems integration, and integration platform as a service (iPaaS) is the design and architecture of an IT/IS solution that stitches together elements from on‐premises and cloud sources into a seamless productive environment. The goals of service integration are to eliminate data silos, expand access, clarify processing visibility, and improve functional connectivity of on‐site and off‐site resources.
What is silicon root of trust (RoT)?	A silicon root of trust (RoT), also known as a Hardware Root of Trust, is a foundational and tamper‐resistant component within a computer's hardware that provides a secure starting point for establishing trust and security in a system. The primary purpose of a silicon RoT is to ensure the integrity, authenticity, and confidentiality of the system's boot process and software.
What is SOA?	Service‐oriented architecture (SOA) constructs new applications or functions out of existing but separate and distinct software services. The resulting application is often new; thus, its security issues are unknown, untested, and unprotected. A derivative of SOA is microservices.
What is storage segmentation on a mobile device?	Storage segmentation is used to artificially compartmentalize various types or values of data on a storage medium. On a mobile device, the device manufacturer and/or the service provider may use storage segmentation to isolate the device's OS and preinstalled apps from user‐installed apps and user data.
What is the cloud shared responsibility model?	The cloud shared responsibility model is the concept that when an organization uses a cloud solution, there is a division of security and stability responsibility between the provider and the customer. The different forms of cloud service (such as SaaS, PaaS, and IaaS) may each have different levels or division points of shared responsibility.
What is the greatest security risk to RAM modules?	Theft
What is the purpose of firmware?	Firmware is software stored on a ROM chip. At the computer level, it contains the basic instructions needed to start a computer. Firmware is also used to provide operating instructions in peripheral devices such as printers. Examples include BIOS and UEFI.
What is TPM?	Trusted Platform Module (TPM) is a cryptoprocessor chip on a mainboard used to store and process cryptographic keys for the purposes of a hardware‐supported or ‐implemented hard drive encryption system.
What is UEFI?	UEFI (Unified Extensible Firmware Interface) is a more advanced interface (than BIOS) between hardware and the operating system, which maintains support for legacy BIOS services.
What is VDI?	Virtual desktop infrastructure (VDI) is a means to reduce the security risk and performance requirements of end devices by hosting virtual machines on central servers that are remotely accessed by users. It is a means to retain storage control on central servers, gain access to higher levels of system processing and other resources, and allow lower‐end devices access to software and services behind their hardware's capacity.
What is virtual networking?	A virtualized network or network virtualization is the combination of hardware and software networking components into a single integrated entity. The resulting solution allows for software control over all network functions: management, traffic shaping, address assignment, and so on.
What is virtual software?	A virtual application or virtual software is a software product deployed in such a way that it is fooled into believing it is interacting with a full host OS. A virtual (or virtualized) application has been packaged or encapsulated so that it can execute but operate without full access to the host OS. A virtual application is isolated from the host OS so that it cannot make any direct or permanent changes to the host OS.
What is virtualization?	Technology used to host one or more operating systems within the memory of a single host computer. This mechanism allows virtually any OS to operate on any hardware. It also allows multiple operating systems to work simultaneously on the same hardware.
What is VM escaping?	VM escaping occurs when software within a guest OS is able to breach the isolation protection provided by the hypervisor in order to violate the container of other guest OSs or to infiltrate a host OS.
What is VMI?	Virtual mobile infrastructure (VMI) is a technology where the operating system of a mobile device is virtualized on a central server. Thus, most of the actions and activities of the traditional mobile device are no longer occurring on the mobile device itself. This remote virtualization allows an organization greater control and security than when using a standard mobile device platform.
What is XaaS?	Anything as a service (XaaS) is the catchall term to refer to any type of computing service or capability that can be provided to customers through or over a cloud solution. Examples are SECaaS, IPaaS, FaaS, ITaaS, and MaaS.
What methods can be used to protect mobile devices such as a smartphone?	Encryption, GPS, password‐protected screen locks, and remote wipe
What should be known about legacy system security risk?	Legacy systems are often a threat because they may not be receiving security updates from their vendors. End of life (EOL) is the point at which a manufacturer no longer produces a product. End of service life (EOSL) or end of support (EOS) are those that are no longer receiving updates and support from the vendor.
What technology allows multiple users to make use of the same process without interfering with each other?	Multithreading
What term is used to describe code sent by a server to a client for execution on the client machine?	Applet
What term is used to describe intelligent code objects that perform actions on behalf of a user?	Agent
What the two types of hypervisors?	A type I hypervisor is a native or bare‐metal hypervisor. In this configuration, there is no host OS; instead, the hypervisor installs directly onto the hardware where the host OS would normally reside. A type II hypervisor is a hosted hypervisor. In this configuration, a standard regular OS is present on the hardware, and then the hypervisor is installed as another software application.
What type of VDI maintains a user's desktop changes?	A persistent virtual desktop infrastructure (VDI) maintains user desktop changes.
Where are DCS systems used and why?	Distributed control system (DCS) units are typically found in industrial process plans where the need to gather data and implement control over a large‐scale environment from a single location is essential. An important aspect of DCS is the controlling elements are distributed across the monitored environment, such as a manufacturing floor or a production line, while the centralized monitoring location sends commands out of those localized controllers when gathering status and performance data.
Where are passwords stored in a Unix or Linux system?	In the /etc/shadow file, much older systems may still use /etc/passwd .
Where are the operating system–independent primitive instructions that a computer needs to start and load the operating system stored?	BIOS or UEFI
