Name some common natural disasters.	Possible answers include: earthquakes, floods, storms, tornadoes, tsunamis, pandemics, and fires, among others.
True or false? Organizations participating in a mutual assistance agreement are typically located in the same geographic region.	True
True or false? Senior management should be included in the BCP process from the beginning.	True
What are some of the qualitative factors that must be taken into account when assessing the cost of a disaster?	Loss of goodwill among client base, loss of employees after prolonged downtime, social/ethical responsibilities to the community, and negative publicity
What are the five steps of the business impact assessment process?	Identification of priorities, risk identification, likelihood assessment, impact assessment, and resource prioritization
What are the four steps of the business continuity planning process?	Business continuity planning involves four distinct phases: project scope and planning, business impact analysis, continuity planning, and approval and implementation. Each task contributes to the overall goal of ensuring that business operations continue uninterrupted in the face of an emergency.
What are the legal and regulatory requirements that face business continuity planners?	Business leaders must exercise due diligence to ensure that shareholders' interests are protected in the event disaster strikes. Some industries are also subject to federal, state, and local regulations that mandate specific BCP procedures. Many businesses also have contractual obligations to their clients that they must meet before, during, and after a disaster.
What are the steps of the business impact analysis process?	The five stages of the business impact analysis process are the identification of priorities, risk identification, likelihood assessment, impact analysis, and resource prioritization.
What business impact analysis/assessment variable is used to describe the longest period of time a resource can be unavailable without causing irreparable harm to the business?	Maximum tolerable downtime (MTD)
What does BCP stand for, and what does it mean?	Business continuity planning (BCP) is the preventive practice of establishing and planning for threats to business flow, including natural and unnatural risk and threats to daily operations.
What is a project‐scheduling tool that is used to judge the size of a software product in development and calculate the standard deviation for risk assessment?	Program Evaluation Review Technique (PERT)
What is a resource capacity agreement?	Organizations relying on cloud computing for their disaster recovery plan should consider entering into a resource capacity agreement with their cloud provider(s). This agreement ensures that the cloud provider will provide the resources needed to support disaster recovery operations.
What is business organization analysis?	In the business organization analysis, the individuals responsible for leading the business continuity planning (BCP) process determine which departments and individuals have a stake in the business continuity plan. This analysis serves as the foundation for BCP team selection and, after validation by the BCP team, is used to guide the next stages of BCP development.
What is critical path analysis?	A systematic effort to identify relationships between mission‐critical applications, processes, and operations and all of the necessary supporting elements
What is the goal of business continuity planning (BCP)?	To ensure the continuous operation of a business in the face of an emergency situation
What is the importance of comprehensively documenting an organization's business continuity plan?	Committing the plan to writing provides the organization with a written record of the procedures to follow when disaster strikes. It prevents the “it's in my head” syndrome and ensures the orderly progress of events in an emergency.
What is the most common document type used for emergency response plans?	Checklists
What is the process used to develop a continuity strategy in relation to BCP?	During the strategy development phase, the BCP team determines which risks they will mitigate. In the provisions and processes phase, the team designs mechanisms and procedures that will mitigate identified risks. The plan must then be approved by senior management and implemented. Personnel must also receive training on their roles in the BCP process.
What organization sponsors the National Flood Insurance Program and is a good source of historical flood information?	Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)
What resource is in greatest demand during the BCP testing, training, and maintenance process?	Personnel time and attention
When a disaster strikes but your ability to perform work tasks is only threatened, not actually interrupted, what response should be used?	BCP
Who are the necessary members of the business continuity planning team?	The BCP team should include, at a minimum, representatives from each of the operational and support departments; technical experts from the IT department; physical and IT security personnel with BCP skills; legal representatives familiar with corporate legal, regulatory, and contractual responsibilities; and representatives from senior management. Additional team members depend on the structure and nature of the organization.
