How are audit trails used?	To reconstruct an event, to extract information about an incident, to prove or disprove culpability
How are security and illegal activities related?	A secure environment should provide mechanisms to prevent the committal of illegal activities, which are actions that violate a legal restriction, regulation, or requirement.
If a witness is not able to uniquely identify an object, how else may it be authenticated in court?	By establishing a chain of evidence
Is adherence to the ISC2 Code of Ethics recommended, mandatory, or optional for CISSPs?	Adherence to the ISC2 Code of Ethics is mandatory, and acceptance of the Code of Ethics is a condition of certification.
What are financial attacks?	Financial attacks are carried out to unlawfully obtain money or services. They are the type of computer crime you most commonly hear about in the news. The goal of a financial attack could be to steal credit card numbers, increase the balance in a bank account, or place “free” long‐distance telephone calls.
What are grudge attacks?	Grudge attacks are attacks that are carried out to damage an organization or a person. The damage could be in the loss of information or information processing capabilities or harm to the organization or a person's reputation.
What are incremental attacks?	Some forms of attack occur in slow, gradual increments rather than through obvious or recognizable attempts to compromise system security or integrity. Two such forms of attack are data diddling and the salami attack.
What are security concerns of evidence storage?	Evidence storage is used to retain logs, drive images, virtual machine snapshots, and other datasets for recovery, internal investigations, and forensic investigations. Protections include dedicated/isolated storage facilities, offline storage, activity tracking, hash management, access restrictions, and encryption.
What are terrorist attacks?	Terrorist attacks are a reality in modern society. Our increasing reliance on information systems makes them more and more attractive to terrorists. Such attacks differ from military and intelligence attacks. The purpose of a terrorist attack is to disrupt normal life and instill fear, whereas a military or intelligence attack is designed to extract secret information.
What are the basic alternatives for confiscating evidence and when is each one appropriate?	The person who owns the evidence could voluntarily surrender it. A subpoena could be used to compel the subject to surrender the evidence. A law enforcement officer performing a legally permissible duty may seize visible evidence that the officer has probable cause to believe is associated with criminal activity. A search warrant is most useful when you need to confiscate evidence without giving the subject an opportunity to alter it. A law enforcement officer may collect evidence when exigent circumstances exist.
What are the branches of forensic analysis?	Media analysis, network analysis, software analysis, and hardware/embedded device analysis
What are the six categories of computer crimes?	Computer crimes are grouped into six categories: military and intelligence attack, business attack, financial attack, terrorist attack, grudge attack, and thrill attack. For the exam, be able to explain the motive of each type of attack.
What are the three major evidence admissibility requirements?	Evidence must be relevant, material, and competent.
What are the various types of evidence that may be used in a criminal or civil trial?	Real evidence consists of actual objects that can be brought into the courtroom. Documentary evidence consists of written documents that provide insight into the facts. Testimonial evidence consists of verbal or written statements made by witnesses.
What are thrill attacks?	Thrill attacks are the attacks launched only for the fun of it.
What does a business attack focus on?	A business attack focuses on illegally obtaining an organization's confidential information. This could be information that is critical to the operation of the organization, such as a secret recipe, or information that could damage the organization's reputation if disclosed, such as personal information about its employees.
What does a civil investigation focus on?	A civil investigation typically does not involve law enforcement but rather involves internal employees and outside consultants working on behalf of a legal team. It prepares the evidence necessary to present a case in civil court resolving a dispute between two parties.
What does a criminal investigation focus on?	A criminal investigation, typically conducted by law enforcement personnel, investigates the alleged violation of criminal law. A criminal investigation may result in charging suspects with a crime and the prosecution of those charges in criminal court.
What does an operational investigation focus on?	An operational investigation examines issues related to the organization's computing infrastructure and has the primary goal of resolving operational issues.
What is electronic discovery?	In legal proceedings, each side has a duty to preserve evidence related to the case and, through the discovery process, share information with their adversary in the proceedings. This discovery process applies to both paper records and electronic records, and the electronic discovery (or eDiscovery) process facilitates the processing of electronic information for disclosure.
What is the definition of computer crime?	Computer crime is a crime (or violation of a law or regulation) that is directed against, or directly involves, a computer.
What is the importance of ethics to security personnel?	Security practitioners are granted a very high level of authority and responsibility to execute their job functions. The potential for abuse exists, and without a strict code of personal behavior, security practitioners could be regarded as having unchecked power. Adherence to a code of ethics helps ensure that such power is not abused. Security professionals must subscribe to both their own organization's code of ethics as well as the ISC2 Code of Ethics.
What is the Locard's exchange principle?	Locard's exchange principle is the core principle that underlies the field of forensic science. Clearly stated, it is that “every contact leaves a trace.” That means that when two objects touch each other, there will be some evidence left behind.
What is the proper name for a criminal act committed against an organization by a current or former employee who exploits knowledge gained on the job in its perpetration?	Sabotage
What is the proper name for the illegal intent behind obtaining and profiting from sensitive information that belongs to some third party (government, corporation, individual, and so on)?	Espionage
What must you do to make sure evidence is kept viable for use in a trial?	You must ensure that the evidence has not changed, and you must be able to validate its integrity.
What term identifies the data extraction technique whereby elements of data are extracted from a much larger body of data to construct a meaningful representation of its overall contents?	Sampling
What term refers to any hardware, software, or data that can be used to prove the identity and actions of an attacker?	Evidence
What type of evidence is an authenticated computer log?	Documentary evidence
Which type of computer crime would likely be timed to occur simultaneously with a physical attack to reduce the ability to effectively respond to the physical attack?	Terrorist attack
