After a network is upgraded, what must be done with a behavior‐based IDS?	Upgrade the baseline.
An attack has a negative effect on the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of an organization's assets. What is this called?	Computer security incident
How can you protect data against fraud and theft?	The use of access controls (auditing and monitoring, for example) reduce fraud and theft.
If an incident has occurred that has violated no laws or regulations, how do you determine whether to report it?	The incident reporting guidelines should be in your security policy.
In which stage of incident response should a root cause analysis be conducted?	Remediation and Review
Many organizations use a centralized application to automate monitoring of systems on a network. Name three terms that refer to these types of systems.	Security information and event management (SIEM), security event management (SEM), and security information management (SIM)
Once an intrusion has occurred, what is the most secure process for restoring the environment?	Format and reinstall from scratch.
What are audit trails?	Audit trails are the records created by recording information about events and occurrences into one or more databases or log files. They are used to reconstruct an event, extract information about an incident, and prove or disprove culpability. Using audit trails is a passive form of detection security control, and audit trails are essential evidence in criminals' prosecution.
What are examples of types of log files?	Log data is recorded in databases and different types of log files. Common log files include security logs, system logs, application logs, firewall logs, proxy logs, and change management logs. Log files should be protected by centrally storing them and using permissions to restrict access, and archived logs should be set to read‐only to prevent modifications.
What are some countermeasures to common attack methods?	Patching software, reconfiguring security, employing firewalls, updating filters, using IDSs/IPSs, improving security policy, using traffic filters, improving physical access control, using system monitoring/auditing
What are the differences between HIDSs and NIDSs?	Host‐based IDSs (HIDSs) can monitor activity on a single system only. A drawback is that attackers can discover and deactivate them. A network‐based IDS (NIDS) can monitor activity on a network, and an NIDS isn't as visible to attackers.
What are the differences between knowledge‐based and behavior‐based detection methods used by IDS?	Knowledge‐based uses a signature database and tries to match monitored events to that database. Behavior‐based learns about the normal activities on your system through watching and learning.
What are the functions of an intrusion detection system (IDS)?	An IDS automates the inspection of audit logs and real‐time system events, detects intrusion attempts, and watches for violations of confidentiality, integrity, and availability.
What are the pros and cons of a host‐based IDS?	It can pinpoint resources compromised by a malicious user. It can't detect network‐only attacks or attacks on other systems, has difficulty detecting DoS attacks, and can be detected by intruders.
What are the pros and cons of a network‐based IDS?	It can monitor a large network and can be hardened against attack. It requires a central view of traffic and can't pinpoint compromised resources. High levels of traffic flow require sufficiently capable IDS systems in order for them not to be overloaded.
What are the typical steps in incident response?	The CISSP Security Operations domain lists incident management steps as detection, response, mitigation, reporting, recovery, remediation, and lessons learned.
What are threat feeds and why use them?	Threat feeds provide organizations with a steady stream of raw data. By analyzing threat feeds, security administrators can learn of current threats. They can then use this knowledge to search through the network, looking for signs of these threats. This is known as threat hunting.
What form of IDS is easier for an intruder to discover and deactivate?	Host‐based IDS
What is a group of records from one or more databases or logs that can be used to reconstruct events after an incident?	Audit trail
What is a honeynet, and what is it used for?	Honeynets are fake networks used to lure intruders in order to create sufficient audit trails for tracking them down and prosecuting. Honeynets contain no real or sensitive data.
What is a honeypot or a honeynet?	A honeypot is an individual computer created as a trap for intruders. A honeynet is two or more networked honeypots used together to simulate a network. They look and act like legitimate systems, but they do not host data of any real value for an attacker.
What is a padded cell?	A padded cell system is similar to a honeypot, but it performs intrusion isolation using a different approach. When an IDS detects an intruder, that intruder is automatically transferred to a padded cell.
What is a pseudo‐flaw?	A pseudo‐flaw is a false vulnerability or apparent loophole intentionally implanted in a system in an attempt to tempt attackers. They are often used on honeypot systems to emulate well‐known operating system vulnerabilities.
What is EDR?	Endpoint detection and response (EDR) is a security mechanism that is an evolution of traditional antimalware products, IDS, and firewall solutions. EDR seeks to detect, record, evaluate, and respond to suspicious activities and events.
What is EPP?	Endpoint protection platform (EPP) is a variation of EDR much like IPS is a variation of IDS. The focus on EPP is on four main security functions: predict, prevent, detect, and respond. Thus, EPP is the more active prevent and predict variation of the more passive EDR concept.
What is MDR?	Managed detection and response (MDR) focuses on threat detection and mediation, but is not limited to the scope of endpoints. MDR is a service that attempts to monitor an IT environment in real time in order to quickly detect and resolve threats. Often an MDR solution is a combination and integration of numerous technologies, including SIEM, network traffic analysis (NTA), EDR, and IDS.
What is SOAR?	Security orchestration, automation, and response (SOAR) technologies automate responses to incidents. One of the primary benefits is that this reduces the workload of administrators. It also removes the possibility of human error by having computer systems respond.
What is Structured Threat Information eXpression (STIX)?	A standardized language expressing structured information about cyberthreats and a common framework for organizations to share and analyze threat intelligence
What is the best protection against a computer joining a botnet?	Up‐to‐date antivirus software
What is the importance of retaining investigatory data?	Because you will discover some incidents after they have occurred, you will lose valuable evidence unless you ensure that critical log files are retained for a reasonable period of time. You can retain log files and system status information either in place or in archives.
What is the leading reason many incidents are not reported?	Because they are not recognized as incidents
What is the purpose of monitoring and uses of monitoring tools?	Monitoring is used to hold subjects accountable for their actions and to detect abnormal or malicious activities. It is also used to monitor system performance. Monitoring tools such as IDSs or SIEMs automate continuous monitoring and provide real‐time analysis of events, including monitoring what happens inside a network, traffic entering a network, and traffic leaving a network (also known as egress monitoring). Log management includes analyzing logs and archiving logs.
What is threat hunting?	Threat hunting is the activity of looking for existing evidence of a compromise once symptoms or an IoC (indicator of compromise) of an exploit become known.
What is Trusted Automated eXchange of Intelligence Information (TAXII)?	Defines protocols and services for automated sharing of structured threat information
What is XDR?	Extended detection and response (XDR) components often include EDR, MDR, and EPP elements. Also, XDR is not solely focused on endpoints, but often includes NTA, NIDS, and NIPS functions as well.
What kind of system is designed to detect intrusions, breaches, or attack attempts as they are underway or after the fact?	Intrusion detection system (IDS)
What term describes any violation or threatened violation of a security policy?	Incident
What type of IDS detects attacks based by comparing it to a baseline?	Behavior‐based (also called statistical‐intrusion detection or anomaly detection)
What type of IDS detects attacks based on known methods?	Knowledge‐based (also called signature‐based or pattern‐matching)
What types of activities are labeled as auditing?	Recording of event/occurrence data, examination of data, data reduction, use of event/occurrence alarm triggers, log analysis, logging, monitoring, using alerts, intrusion detection
When an intrusion is detected, what should be the first response?	Contain or constrain the intrusion.
Where should you begin looking to find information about an incident that occurred in the recent past?	The first place to look is in the system and network log files.
Which two types of incidents are the easiest to stop by dynamically altering filtering rules?	Scanning and denial of service. They can both potentially be stopped by filtering out the offending packets.
Which type of incident generally does not cause direct damage to the victim?	Scanning. The purpose of a scanning attack is to collect information. The real damage to the system occurs in later attacks.
While containing an incident, what is the next important consideration?	Protection of evidence
Why implement basic preventive measures?	Basic preventive measures can prevent many incidents from occurring. These include keeping systems up‐to‐date, removing or deactivating unneeded protocols and services, using intrusion detection and prevention systems, using antimalware software with up‐to‐date signatures, and enabling both host‐based and network‐based firewalls.
Why is monitoring an important part of a security policy?	Monitoring is used to watch for security policy violations and to detect unauthorized or abnormal activities.
