How are PVC, SVC, DTE, and DCE used in a WAN network link?	WAN network links require the use of a DTE and a DCE at each connection point. PVC is always available; SVC is established using the best paths currently available.
How does the teardrop attack operate?	It sends overlapping packet fragments to the victim machine.
What are countermeasures to spoofing attacks?	Countermeasures to spoofing attacks include patching the OS and software, enabling source/destination verification on routers, and employing an IDS to detect and block attacks.
What are examples of email security solutions?	Using Secure Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (S/MIME), Pretty Good Privacy (PGP), DomainKeys Identified Mail (DKIM), Sender Policy Framework (SPF), Domain‐based Message Authentication Reporting and Conformance (DMARC), STARTTLS, and Implicit SMTPS
What are scanning attacks?	Scanning attacks are reconnaissance attacks that usually precede another, more serious attack.
What are some common threats that may occur through email?	Email is a common delivery mechanism for viruses, worms, Trojan horses, documents with destructive macros, and phishing attacks.
What are some common VPN protocols?	PPTP, L2TP, SSH, and IPSec (Note: SSL/TLS is a valid VPN protocol as well, but it's not necessarily recognized on the exam as such.)
What are some countermeasures to eavesdropping?	Maintaining physical access security, using encryption, employing one‐time authentication methods
What are some important aspects to consider when designing email security?	Nonrepudiation, access control, message integrity, source authentication, verified delivery, acceptable use policies, privacy, management, and backup and retention policies
What are some security issues related to VoIP?	Caller ID spoofing, vishing, call manager software/firmware attacks, phone hardware attacks, DoS, adversary‐in‐the‐middle (AitM)/man‐in‐the‐middle (MitM)/on‐path attacks, spoofing, and switch hopping
What are some ways to keep inappropriate content to a minimum?	Address the issue in the security policy, perform awareness training, use content filtering tools to filter source or word content
What are the most common threats against communication systems?	Denial of service, eavesdropping, impersonation, replay, and modification
What are the two main forms of DoS?	The first form exploits a vulnerability in hardware or software. This exploitation of a weakness, error, or standard feature of software to cause a system to hang, freeze, consume all system resources, and so on. The end result is that the victimized computer is unable to process any legitimate tasks. The second form floods the victim's communication pipeline with garbage network traffic. This is sometimes called a traffic generation or flooding attack.
What is a denial‐of‐service attack?	An attack that prevents the system from receiving, processing, or responding to legitimate traffic or requests for resources and objects
What is a load balancer?	The purpose of load balancing is to obtain more optimal infrastructure utilization, minimize response time, maximize throughput, reduce overloading, and eliminate bottlenecks. A load balancer is used to spread or distribute network traffic load across several network links or network devices.
What is a ping flood?	A ping flood attack floods a victim with ping requests. This can be very effective when launched by zombies within a botnet as a DDoS attack. If tens of thousands of systems simultaneously send ping requests to a system, the system can be overwhelmed trying to answer the ping requests.
What is a proxy, and what is it used for?	Any system that performs a function or requests a service on behalf of another system. Proxies are most often used to provide clients with Internet access while protecting their identity.
What is a replay or playback attack?	A malicious user records the traffic between a client and a server and then retransmits them to the server with slight variations of the timestamp and source IP address. It is similar to hijacking.
What is a sniffer attack?	Any activity that results in a malicious user obtaining information about a network or the traffic over that network. Data is captured using a sniffer or protocol analyzer.
What is a spamming attack?	Directing floods of messages to a victim's email inbox or other messaging system. Such attacks cause DoS issues by filling up storage space and preventing legitimate messages from being delivered.
What is a split tunnel and a full tunnel?	A split tunnel is a VPN configuration that allows a VPN‐connected client system (i.e., remote node) to access both the organizational network over the VPN and the internet directly at the same time. A full tunnel is a VPN configuration in which all of the client's traffic is sent to the organizational network over the VPN link, and then any Internet‐destined traffic is routed out of the organizational network's proxy or firewall interface to the Internet.
What is a spoofing attack?	The attacker pretends to be someone or something other than whom or what they are. They can spoof identities, IP addresses, email addresses, and phone numbers. They often replace the valid source and/or destination IP address and node numbers with false ones.
What is a VLAN?	A hardware‐imposed network segmentation created by switches used to manage traffic
What is a VPN?	A virtual private network (VPN) is a communication tunnel that provides point‐to‐point transmission of both authentication and data traffic over an intermediary network.
What is a Zoom room?	Refers to a dedicated physical space equipped with audio‐visual and communication technology designed for hosting video meetings, conferences, and collaborations. A Zoom room is set up to enhance the quality and experience of online video collaboration meetings. They often include larger displays, high‐quality camera and microphone equipment, a high‐quality sound system, touchscreen system/room controls, lighting controls, and other smart technologies.
What is an adversary‐in‐the‐middle (AitM) or on‐path attack (previously known as man‐in‐the‐middle [MitM])?	An attack in which a malicious user is positioned between the two endpoints of a communication's link
What is DDoS?	A distributed denial‐of‐service (DDoS) attack occurs when multiple systems attack a single system at the same time.
What is dense wavelength division multiplexing (DWDM)?	An optical communication technology used in fiber‐optic communication systems to increase the capacity and efficiency of the network. DWDM enables multiple data streams or channels to be simultaneously transmitted over a single optical fiber, each using a different wavelength of light.
What is domain hijacking?	Domain hijacking, or domain theft, is the malicious action of changing the registration of a domain name without the authorization of the valid owner. This may be accomplished by stealing the owner's logon credentials; using XSRF, session hijacking, or an adversary‐in‐the‐middle (AiTM)/man‐in‐the‐middle (MitM)/on‐path attack; or exploiting a flaw in the domain registrar's systems.
What is DRDoS?	A distributed reflective denial‐of‐service (DRDoS) attack is a variant of a DoS. It uses a reflected approach to an attack. In other words, it doesn't attack the victim directly but instead manipulates traffic or a network service so that the attacks are reflected back to the victim from other sources.
What is MPLS?	MPLS (multiprotocol label switching) is a high‐throughput, high‐performance network technology that directs data across a network based on short path labels rather than longer network addresses.
What is NAT66?	NAT66 allows multiple devices within a private IPv6 network to share the same public IPv6 address when communicating with external networks, such as the Internet. NAT66 provides a level of privacy and security by hiding internal network details from external entities. It assigns global IPv6 addresses to devices within the private network, and external entities see only the public IPv6 address.
What is NAT?	Network Address Translation (NAT) allows the private IP addresses defined in RFC 1918 to be used in a private network while still being able to communicate with the Internet.
What is opportunistic TLS?	Opportunistic TLS for SMTP will attempt to set up an encrypted connection with every other email server in the event that it is supported; otherwise, it will downgrade to plain text. Using opportunistic TLS for SMTP gateways reduces the opportunities for casual sniffing of email.
What is phreaking?	A specific type of attack in which various types of technology are used to circumvent the telephone system to make free long‐distance calls, to alter the function of telephone service, to steal specialized services, or to cause service disruptions
What is port isolation or private ports in relation to VLANs?	These are private VLANs that are configured to use a dedicated or reserved uplink port. The members of a private VLAN or a port isolated VLAN can only interact with each other and over the predetermined exit port or uplink port. A common implementation of port isolation occurs in hotels.
What is SDN?	Software‐defined network (SDN) is a unique approach to network operation, design, and management. SDN aims at separating the infrastructure layer (i.e., hardware and hardware‐based settings) from the control layer (i.e., network services of data transmission management). Furthermore, this also removes the traditional networking concepts of IP addressing, subnets, routing, and so on from needing to be programmed into or be deciphered by hosted applications.
What is SPF?	Sender Policy Framework (SPF) is used to protect against spam and email spoofing. SPF operates by checking that inbound messages originate from a host authorized to send messages by the owners of the SMTP origin domain.
What is SRTP?	SRTP (Secure Real‐Time Transport Protocol, or Secure RTP) is a security improvement over RTP (Real‐Time Transport Protocol) that is used in many VoIP (Voice over IP) communications. SRTP aims to minimize the risk of VoIP DoS through robust encryption and reliable authentication.
What is the difference between active/active and active/passive?	An active‐active system is a form of load balancing that uses all available pathways or systems during normal operations. But it has reduced capacity in adverse conditions. An active‐passive system is a form of load balancing that keeps some pathways or system in an unused dormant state during normal operations. And it is able to maintain consistent capacity during abnormal conditions.
What is the difference between packet switching and circuit switching?	In circuit switching, a dedicated physical pathway is created between the two parties. Packet switching occurs when the message is broken up into packets and sent across the intermediary network.
What is the primary method to improve fax security?	Deactivate automatic printing of received faxes.
What is tunneling, and why is it used?	A process that protects the contents of packets by encapsulating them in another protocol. This creates the logical illusion of a communications tunnel through an untrusted intermediary network.
What is VLAN hopping?	An attack using double‐encapsulated IEEE 802.1Q VLAN tags to fool a switch into allowing traffic to jump to a different VLAN from which the traffic originated
What is VoIP?	Voice over IP (VoIP) is a tunneling mechanism used to transport voice and/or data over a TCP/IP network. VoIP has the potential to replace or supplant PSTN because it's often less expensive and offers a wider variety of options and features.
What is war dialing?	War dialing means using a modem to search for a system that accepts inbound connection attempts.
What type of attack leverages part of the TCP three‐way handshake?	SYN flood attack
What type of system is a common target of attackers who want to disseminate email spam?	Open relay SMTP servers
What use is QoS?	Quality of service (QoS) controls protect the integrity of data networks under load. Many different factors contribute to the quality of the end user experience, and QoS attempts to manage all of those factors to create an experience that meets business requirements.
Which VPN protocol supports multiple simultaneous connections?	IPSec
Who has the responsibility to ensure that communications are secured?	The sender
