Administrators are removing all data from data records that can be used to identify an individual. What is this process called?	Anonymization
Administrators are replacing all data in data records that can be used to identify an individual with pseudonyms. What is this process called?	Pseudonymization
Compare the various data destruction methods.	Erasing a file doesn't delete it. Clearing media overwrites it with characters or bits. Purging repeats the clearing process multiple times and removes data so that the media can be reused. Degaussing removes data from tapes and magnetic hard disk drives, but it does not affect optical media or SSDs. Destruction methods include incineration, crushing, shredding, and disintegration.
Define Sensitive But Unclassified (SBU)?	Sensitive But Unclassified (SBU) is used for data that is for internal use or office use only. Often SBU is used to protect information that could violate the privacy rights of individuals.
Describe record retention policies.	Record retention policies ensure that data is kept in a usable state while it is needed and destroyed when it is no longer needed. Many laws and regulations mandate keeping data for a specific amount of time, but in the absence of formal regulations, organizations specify the retention period within a policy. Audit trail data needs to be kept long enough to reconstruct past incidents, but the organization must identify how far back they want to investigate.
How should an organization approach the management of sensitive information?	Sensitive information is any type of classified information, and proper management helps prevent unauthorized disclosure resulting in a loss of confidentiality. Proper management includes marking, handling, storing, and destroying sensitive information. The two areas where organizations often miss the mark are adequately protecting backup media holding sensitive information and sanitizing media or equipment when it is at the end of its lifecycle.
In relation to storage media, what is clearing?	Clearing, or overwriting, is a process of preparing media for reuse and assuring that the cleared data cannot be recovered using traditional recovery tools. When media is cleared, unclassified data is written over all addressable locations on the media.
In relation to storage media, what is declassification?	Declassification involves any process that purges media or a system in preparation for reuse in an unclassified environment. Purging can be used to prepare media for declassification, but often the efforts required to securely declassify media are significantly greater than the cost of new media for a less secure environment.
In relation to storage media, what is erasing?	Erasing media is simply performing a delete operation against a file, a selection of files, or the entire media. In most cases, the deletion or removal process removes only the directory or catalog link to the data. The actual data remains on the drive.
In relation to storage media, what is purging?	Purging is a more intense form of clearing that prepares media for reuse in less secure environments. It provides a level of assurance that the original data is not recoverable using any known methods. A purging process will repeat the clearing process multiple times and may combine it with another method such as degaussing to completely remove the data. Even though purging is intended to remove all data remnants, it isn't always trusted.
In relation to storage media, what is sanitization?	Sanitization is a combination of processes that removes data from a system or from media. It ensures that data cannot be recovered by any means.
Name the security issues surrounding secondary storage devices.	Three main security issues surround secondary storage devices: removable media can be used to steal data, access controls and encryption must be applied to protect data, and data can remain on the media even after file deletion or media formatting.
Name the three types of subjects and their roles in a security environment.	The user accesses objects on a system to perform a work task; the owner is liable for protection of data; the data custodian is assigned to classify and protect data.
Name two common types of DLP.	A network‐based DLP scans all outgoing data looking for specific data. An endpoint‐based DLP can scan files stored on a system and files sent to external devices.
What are scoping and tailoring?	Scoping refers to reviewing baseline security controls and selecting only those controls that apply to the IT system you're trying to protect. Tailoring refers to modifying the list of security controls within a baseline so that they align with the mission of the organization.
What are security control baselines?	Security control baselines provide a listing of controls that an organization can apply as a baseline. Not all baselines apply to all organizations. Organizations apply scoping and tailoring techniques to adapt a baseline to their needs.
What are some methods of storage media destruction?	Destruction is the final stage in the life cycle of media and is the most secure method of sanitizing media. When destroying media it's important to ensure that the media cannot be reused or repaired and that data cannot be extracted from the destroyed media. Methods of destruction include incineration, crushing, shredding, disintegration, and dissolving using caustic or acidic chemicals. Some organizations remove the platters in highly classified disk drives and destroy them separately.
What are the goals of managing backup media?	Preventing disclosure, destruction, and alteration of data
What are the processes that can be applied to used media in order to prepare the media for reuse in various environments?	Erasing, clearing, and overwriting media that will be used in the same classification environments; purging, sanitizing, and degaussing if media is used in different classification environments
What are the responsibilities of the roles of data custodian, data processor, data administrator, and user?	Data controllers decide what data to process and how to process it. Data processors are often the third‐party entities that process data for an organization at the direction of the data processor. Data administrators grant access to data based on guidelines provided by the data owners. A user, or subject, accesses data while performing work tasks. A custodian has day‐to‐day responsibilities for protecting and storing data.
What are the responsibilities of the roles of data owner, system owner, and business/mission owner?	The data owner is the person responsible for classifying, labeling, and protecting data. System owners are responsible for the systems that process the data. Business and mission owners own the processes and ensure that the systems provide value to the organization.
What are the three data states and their definitions?	Data at rest is any data stored on media such as system hard drives, external USB drives, storage area networks (SANs), and backup tapes. Data in transit (sometimes called data in motion) is any data transmitted over a network. This includes data transmitted over an internal network using wired or wireless methods and data transmitted over public networks such as the Internet. Data in use refers to data in temporary storage buffers while an application is using it.
What criteria are used to classify data?	Usefulness, timeliness, value or cost, maturity or age, lifetime or expiration period, disclosure damage assessment, modification damage assessment, national or business security implications, storage
What is an early step in asset security?	Classifying and labeling assets
What is data classification?	Data classification is the primary means by which data is protected based on categories of secrecy, sensitivity, or confidentiality.
What is data remanence?	Data remanence is the data that remains on a storage device as residual and potentially recoverable data. Using system tools to delete data generally leaves much of the data remaining on the media, and widely available tools can easily undelete it. Even when you use sophisticated tools to overwrite the media, traces of the original data may remain.
What is degaussing?	A degausser creates a strong magnetic field that erases data on some media in a process called degaussing. Technicians commonly use degaussing methods to remove data from magnetic tapes with the goal of returning the tape to its original state. While it is possible to degauss hard disks, it is not recommended. Degaussing a hard disk will normally destroy the electronics used to access the data.
What is DLP?	Data loss prevention (DLP) systems attempt to detect and block data exfiltration attempts. These systems have the capability of scanning data looking for keywords and data patterns.
What is egress monitoring?	Egress monitoring refers to monitoring outgoing traffic to prevent data exfiltration, which is the unauthorized transfer of data. Some common methods used to prevent data exfiltration are data loss prevention techniques, looking for steganography attempts, and watermarking.
What is PHI?	Protected health information (PHI) is any health‐related information that can be related to a specific person. In the United States, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) mandates the protection of PHI.
What is PII?	Personally identifiable information (PII) is any information that can identify an individual.
What is privacy?	Prevention of unauthorized intrusion, knowledge that information deemed personal or confidential won't be shared with unauthorized entities, freedom from being observed without consent
What is proprietary data?	Proprietary data refers to any data that helps an organization maintain a competitive edge. It could be software code it developed, technical plans for products, internal processes, intellectual property, or trade secrets. If competitors are able to access the proprietary data, it can seriously affect the primary mission of an organization.
What is sensitive data?	Sensitive data is any information that isn't public or unclassified. It can include confidential, proprietary, protected, or any other type of data that an organization needs to protect due to its value to the organization or to comply with existing laws and regulations.
What is the commercial business/private sector classification scheme?	Confidential, private, sensitive, public
What is the data custodian security role?	The data custodian is assigned the tasks of implementing the prescribed protection defined by the security policy and upper management.
What is the difference between EOL and EOS?	End of life (EOL) is the date announced by a vendor when sales of a product stop. However, the vendor still supports the product after EOL. End of support (EOS) identifies the date when a vendor will no longer support a product.
What is the function of the auditor security role?	The auditor is responsible for testing and verifying that the security policy is properly implemented and the derived security solutions are adequate.
What is the function of the data owner security role?	The data owner is responsible for classifying information for protection within the security solution.
What is the government/military data classification scheme?	Top secret, secret, confidential, sensitive, and unclassified
What is the importance of data and asset classifications?	Data owners are responsible for defining data and asset classifications and ensuring that data and systems are properly marked. Additionally, data owners define requirements to protect data at different classifications, such as encrypting sensitive data at rest and in transit. Data classifications are typically defined within security policies or data policies.
What is the name for the demagnetization process used to erase disk drives or tapes to wipe out all previously stored data?	Degaussing
What is the term that identifies data on a disk after the data has supposedly been erased?	Data remanence
What is tokenization?	Tokenization replaces data elements with a string of characters or a token. Credit card processors replace credit card data with a token, and a third party holds the mapping to the original data and the token.
What is watermarking?	Watermarking is the practice of embedding an image or pattern in paper that isn't readily perceivable. It is often used with currency to thwart counterfeiting attempts. Similarly, organizations often use watermarking in digital documents and other types of files.
What kinds of processes must be applied when confidential storage media is prepared for reuse in questionably secure environments?	Declassification
What method will remove all data with assurances that it cannot be removed using any known methods?	Purging, sanitization, or destruction
What should be done before disposing of a desktop computer at the end of its life cycle?	Sanitization
When an asset no longer needs or warrants a high‐security sensitivity label, what should occur?	Declassification
When sensitive data is no longer needed by an organization, what should be done with it?	When an organization no longer needs sensitive data, personnel should destroy it. Proper destruction ensures that it cannot fall into the wrong hands and result in unauthorized disclosure.
With what level of security precautions should backup media be treated?	Backup media should be handled with the same security precautions as any other asset with the same data classification.
