At what layer does SSL and TLS function?	Transport layer (OSI layer 4)
Define anycast and geocast.	Anycast technology supports communications where a single sender transmits data to the nearest or best‐suited node among a group of potential receivers. The goal is to deliver data to the “nearest” or “best” node in terms of network topology or routing metrics. Geocast technology supports communications where data is sent to all devices within a specific geographical area. It is a one‐to‐all communication paradigm limited to a particular geographic region, and devices outside that area do not receive the broadcast.
Define WPA2.	IEEE 802.11i defined Wi‐Fi Protected Access 2 (WPA2). WPA2 supports two authentication options: preshared key (PSK) or personal (PER) and IEEE 802.1X or enterprise (ENT). WPA2 uses AES‐CCMP.
Define WPA3.	Wi‐Fi Protected Access 3 (WPA3) uses 192‐bit AES CCMP encryption, whereas WPA3‐PER remains at 128‐bit AES CCMP. WPA3‐PER uses Simultaneous Authentication of Equals (SAE).
Describe broadcast, multicast, and unicast communications.	A broadcast supports communications to all possible recipients. A multicast supports communications to multiple specific recipients. A unicast supports only a single communication to one recipient.
How long is a UDP header?	8 bytes
How many sockets does TCP have?	65, 536 (2^16) sockets (aka ports), numbered from 0 to 65,535
List the security features offered by the Network layer of the OSI model.	The Network layer (layer 3) offers confidentiality, authentication, and integrity.
Name an example of a link state routing protocol.	OSPF
Name at least five networking device types other than firewalls.	Routers, switches, hubs, repeaters, bridges, gateways, proxies
Name at least four technologies commonly called wireless.	802.11 networking, Bluetooth (802.15.1/Bluetooth SIG), mobile phones, and cordless phones
Name four examples of infrastructure mode wireless networking.	Stand‐alone, wired extension, enterprise extended, and bridge
Name one or more examples of vector routing protocol.	RIP, IGRP, BGP
Name six wireless frequency access technologies.	FHSS, DSSS, OFDM, MIMO, TDMA, and CDMA
Name the common network topologies.	Ring, bus, star, and mesh
Name the seven layers of the OSI model by their layer name and layer number.	Application (7), Presentation (6), Session (5), Transport (4), Network (3), Data Link (2), and Physical (1)
Network devices at what layer and above separate broadcast domains?	Layer 3
Network devices at what layer and above separate collision domains?	Layer 2
On an 802.11 wireless network, what contains the regular announcement of the network name by default?	The beacon frame contains the SSID (i.e., network name) by default. This can be stopped using the Disable SSID Broadcast feature of a wireless access point.
What are common network devices?	Repeaters, hubs, modems, bridges, switches, routers, LAN extenders, jumpboxes, sensors, collectors, and aggregators
What are converged protocols?	Converged protocols are the merging of specialty or proprietary protocols with standard protocols. The primary benefit of converged protocols is the ability to use existing TCP/IP supporting network infrastructure to host special or proprietary services without the need for unique deployments of alternate networking hardware. Common examples of converged protocols include FCoE, MPLS, iSCSI, VPN, SDN, cloud, virtualization, SOA, microservices, infrastructure as code (IaC), and serverless architecture.
What are elements that make up quality of service (QoS)?	Attenuation, interference, noise, jitter, bandwidth, and propagation delay or latency
What are examples of Bluetooth attacks?	Bluesniffing, bluesmacking, bluejacking, BLUFFS (Bluetooth Forward and Future Secrecy) is a series of exploits targeting Bluetooth, aiming to break Bluetooth sessions' forward and future secrecy, compromising the confidentiality of past and future communications between devices) bluesnarfing, and bluebugging
What are examples of Wi‐Fi attacks?	War driving, wireless scanners/crackers, rogue access points, evil twin, disassociation, jamming, IV abuse, and replay
What are five examples of DNS poisoning?	HOSTS poisoning, authorized DNS server attack, caching DNS server attack, changing a DNS server address, and DNS query spoofing
What are some examples of the various types of firewalls?	Static packet filtering, application‐level, circuit‐level, stateful inspection, NGFW, ISFW, virtual firewall, filters/rules/ACLs/tuples, bastion host, ingress, egress, RTBH, stateless vs. stateful, WAF, SWG, TCP wrapper, DPI, and content and URL filtering
What are some of the means for a DNS poisoning or attack to occur?	Rogue DNS server, planting false data in a zone file, altering the HOSTS file, and corrupting IP configuration to change DNS lookup server address
What are the basic labels, groupings, and examples of routing protocols?	Interior routing protocols are distance vector (Routing Information Protocol ([RIP] and Interior Gateway Routing Protocol [IGRP]) and link state (Open Shortest Path First [OSPF] and Intermediate System to Intermediate System [IS‐IS]); an exterior routing protocol is path vector (Border Gateway Protocol [BGP]).
What are the benefits and drawbacks of multilayer protocols?	Benefits of multilayer protocols include the fact that they can be used at higher OSI levels and that they offer encryption, flexibility, and resiliency. Drawbacks include covert channels, filter bypass, and violation of network segment boundaries.
What are the characteristics of PPP?	The Point‐to‐Point Protocol (PPP) is an encapsulation protocol designed to support the transmission of IP traffic over dial‐up or point‐to‐point links. PPP supports CHAP and PAP for authentication.
What are the four TCP header flags that are used in virtual circuit setup and teardown?	SYN, ACK, FIN, and RES (or RST)
What are the most common causes of network failure?	Cable failures and misconfigurations
What are the network container names at each OSI model layer?	The network containers are OSI layers 7–5 protocol data unit (PDU), layer 4 segment (TCP) or a datagram (UDP), layer 3 packet, layer 2 frame, and layer 1 bits.
What are the six flags from the TCP header that we still commonly use and what is their order in the header?	XXUAPRSF. The X represents two flags no longer used, followed by Urgent, Acknowledgment, Push, Reset, Synchronization, and Finish. You can memorize this flag order using the phrase “Unskilled Attackers Pester Real Security Folk.”
What are the standards‐based form(s) of encryption of 802.11 wireless networks and the cryptography protocols related to WPA2?	WPA2 (AES/CCMP)
What are the three phases of the three‐way handshake used by TCP/IP?	SYN, SYN/ACK, ACK
What are the two DHCPv6 modes of operation?	In stateful mode, DHCPv6 assigns specific IPv6 addresses to devices and manages the allocation of network configuration parameters. In stateless mode, DHCPv6 provides network configuration parameters without assigning specific IPv6 addresses. Devices may use Stateless Address Autoconfiguration (SLAAC) to generate their own addresses.
What are the various types and purposes of network segmentation?	Network segmentation can be used to manage traffic, improve performance, and enforce security. Examples of network segments or subnetworks include intranet, extranet, and screened subnet.
What are three methods used to manage and control access to the communication medium in LANs?	Arbitration, deconfliction, and contention‐based
What are two forms of ARP poisoning?	ARP cache poisoning is caused by an attack responding to ARP broadcast queries in order to send back falsified replies. A second form of ARP cache poisoning is to create static ARP entries.
What are types of wireless antenna?	Omnidirectional pole antennas, as well as many directional antennas, such as Yagi, cantenna, panel, and parabolic
What components make up a FQDN?	A fully qualified domain names (FQDN) consists of three main parts: top‐level domain (TLD), like the com in www.google.com; registered domain name, like the google in www.google.com; and subdomain(s) or hostname, like the www in www.google.com.
What is a broadcast storm?	A flood of unwanted Ethernet broadcast network traffic
What is a captive portal?	A captive portal is an authentication technique that redirects a newly connected wireless web client to a portal access control page. The portal page may require the user to input payment information, provide logon credentials, or input an access code.
What is a CDN?	A content‐distribution network (CDN) or content delivery network is a collection of resource services deployed in numerous data centers across the Internet in order to provide low‐latency, high‐performance, high‐availability of the hosted content.
What is a local cache?	A local cache is anything that is temporarily stored on the client for future reuse. There are many local caches on a typical client, including ARP cache, DNS cache, and Internet files cache.
What is a MAC address?	A Media Access Control (MAC) address is a 6‐byte (48‐bit) binary address written in hexadecimal notation, aka hardware address, physical address, the NIC address, and the Ethernet address. The first 3 bytes (24 bits) of the address is the organizationally unique identifier (OUI), which denotes the vendor or manufacturer.
What is a protocol analyzer?	A tool used to examine the contents of network traffic
What is a site survey?	A site survey is a formal assessment of wireless signal strength, quality, and interference using an RF signal detector. A site survey is performed by placing a wireless base station in a desired location and then collecting signal measurements from the area. The signal measurements are overlaid onto a blueprint of the building to determine whether sufficient signal is present where needed, while minimizing signals outside the desired location.
What is an ARP attack?	The modification of ARP mappings. When ARP mappings are falsified, packets are not sent to their proper destination. ARP mappings can be attacked through spoofing. Spoofing provides false MAC addresses for requested IP addressed systems to redirect traffic to alternate destinations.
What is an SSID and what types are there?	A service set identifier (SSID) is a network name for a single WAP. An ESSID (extended service set identifier) is used when there are multiple WAPs supporting a network. An independent service set identifier (ISSID) is used by Wi‐Fi Direct or in ad hoc mode. The BSSID (basic service set identifier) is the MAC address of the base station (or ad hoc/Wi‐Fi Direct initiating device).
What is another name for the area of Bluetooth connectivity?	Personal area network (PAN)
What is ARP?	Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) is essential to the interoperability of logical and physical addressing schemes. ARP is used to resolve IP addresses into MAC addresses.
What is broadband over power lines (BPL)?	A technology that enables high‐speed data transmission over existing electrical power lines. In a BPL system, data signals are transmitted along the same infrastructure that is used to deliver electric power. This technology leverages the extensive network of power lines to provide broadband Internet access to homes, businesses, and other locations.
What is Compute Express Link (CXL)?	An advanced high‐speed interconnect technology developed to address the increasing demands of data‐intensive workloads in modern computing systems. It is designed to enhance the performance, efficiency, and scalability of data‐centric applications in various domains such as AI, ML, and HPC. As a converged protocol, CXL supports the communication and collaboration of various system components, such as CPUs and GPUs over a single high‐speed interconnect.
What is DNS pharming?	DNS pharming is the malicious redirection of a valid website's URL or IP address to a fake website that hosts a false version of the original valid site. This is often part of a phishing attack where the attacker is attempting to trick victims into giving up their logon credentials.
What is DNS poisoning?	DNS poisoning is the act of falsifying the DNS information used by a client to reach a desired system. It can take place in many ways.
What is DNS?	The Domain Name System (DNS) is the hierarchical naming scheme used in both public and private networks. DNS links human‐friendly fully qualified domain names (FQDNs) and IP addresses together. DNSSEC and DoH are DNS security features.
What is DNSSEC?	DNSSEC (Domain Name System Security Extensions) is a security improvement to the existing DNS infrastructure. The primary function of DNSSEC is to provide reliable authentication between devices during DNS operations. DNSSEC has been implemented across a significant portion of the DNS system. Each DNS server is issued a digital certificate, which is then used to perform mutual certificate authentication.
What is encapsulation?	Encapsulation is the addition of a header, and possibly a footer, to the data received by each layer from the layer above before it's handed off to the layer below. The inverse action is deencapsulation.
What is FCoE?	Fibre Channel over Ethernet (FCoE) can be used to support Fibre Channel communications over the existing network infrastructure. FCoE is used to encapsulate Fibre Channel communications over Ethernet networks. It typically requires 10 Gbps Ethernet in order to support the Fibre Channel protocol.
What is InfiniBand over Ethernet (IBOE)?	InfiniBand over Ethernet (IBOE) refers to the encapsulation of InfiniBand traffic within Ethernet frames, allowing InfiniBand protocols to run over Ethernet networks. InfiniBand is a high‐performance and low‐latency interconnect technology commonly used in high‐performance computing (HPC) environments. IBOE provides a way to integrate InfiniBand technology into existing Ethernet infrastructures.
What is iSCSI?	Internet Small Computer System Interface (iSCSI) is a networking storage standard based on IP. This technology can be used to enable location‐independent file storage, transmission, and retrieval over LAN, WAN, or public Internet connections. iSCSI is often viewed as a low‐cost alternative to Fibre Channel.
What is MAC filtering?	A MAC filter is a list of authorized wireless client interface MAC addresses that is used by a WAP to block access to all nonauthorized devices. MAC filters may also be used on switches or other wired network management devices.
What is microsegmentation?	Microsegmentation is dividing up an internal network in numerous subzones, potentially as small as a single device, such as a high‐value server or even a client or endpoint device. Each zone is separated from the others by internal segmentation firewalls (ISFWs), subnets, or VLANs.
What is NAC?	Network Access Control (NAC) is a concept of controlling access to an environment through strict adherence to and implementation of security policy. The goals of NAC are to prevent/reduce zero‐day attacks, to enforce security policy throughout the network, and to use identities to perform access control.
What is NFC?	Near‐field communication (NFC) is a standard that establishes radio communications between devices in close proximity. It lets you perform a type of automatic synchronization and association between devices by touching them together or bringing them within inches of each other.
What is port security?	Port security can mean the physical control of all connection points, such as RJ‐45 wall jacks or device ports. Port security is the management of TCP and User Datagram Protocol (UDP) ports. Port security can also refer to the need to authenticate to a port before being allowed to communicate through or across the port (i.e., IEEE 802.1X).
What is RFID?	RFID (radio frequency identification) is a tracking technology based on the ability to power a radio transmitter using current generated in an antenna when placed in a magnetic field. RFID can be triggered/powered and read from a considerable distance away (often hundreds of meters).
What is SAE?	Simultaneous Authentication of Equals (SAE) performs a zero‐knowledge proof process known as Dragonfly Key Exchange, which is itself a derivative of Diffie–Hellman. The process uses a preset password and the MAC addresses of the client and AP to perform authentication and session key exchange.
What is SDV?	Software‐defined visibility (SDV) is a framework to automate the processes of network monitoring and response. The goal is to enable the analysis of every packet and make deep intelligence‐based decisions on forwarding, dropping, or otherwise responding to threats.
What is Secure Access Service Edge (SASE)?	Secure Access Service Edge (SASE) is a framework that converges network security functions with wide area networking (WAN) capabilities, catering to the dynamic, secure access needs of modern organizations. SASE is designed to respond to the evolving IT landscape marked by trends such as cloud adoption, a mobile workforce, and an increased emphasis on network security.
What is split‐DNS?	A split‐DNS is deploying a DNS server for public use and a separate DNS server for internal use. All data in the zone file on the public DNS server is accessible by the public via queries or probing. However, the internal DNS is for internal use only. Only internal systems are granted access to interact with the internal DNS server.
What is spread spectrum?	Spectrum‐use techniques manage the simultaneous use of the limited radio frequencies, including FHSS, DSSS, and OFDM.
What is Stateless Address Autoconfiguration (SLAAC)?	SLAAC is based on routers periodically sending Router Advertisement (RA) messages to the local network segment in order to facilitate stateless DHCPv6. The RA messages include information about the network prefix that devices should use when forming their IPv6 addresses. The second element used to craft an IPv6 address is the interface identifier, which is typically derived from the Media Access Control (MAC) address of the network interface on the device.
What is technology convergence?	The tendency for various technologies, solutions, utilities, and systems to evolve and merge over time. Often this results in multiple systems performing similar or redundant tasks or one system taking over the features and abilities of another. While in some instances this can result in improved efficiency and cost savings, it can also be an increased single point of failure and can become a more valuable target for hackers and intruders.
What is the APIPA range?	169.254.0.1 to 169.254.255.254 along with the default Class B subnet mask of 255.255.0.0
What is the difference between analog and digital signals?	Analog communications occur with a continuous signal that varies in frequency, amplitude, and so on. Digital communications occur through the use of a state change of on‐off pulses.
What is the difference between baseband and broadband communications?	Baseband technology uses a direct current to support a single communication channel. Broadband technology uses frequency modulation to support multiple simultaneous signals.
What is the difference between synchronous and asynchronous communications?	Synchronous communications rely on a timing or clocking mechanism. Asynchronous communications rely on a stop and start delimiter bit to manage transmission of data.
What is the evil twin attack?	Evil twin is an attack in which a bad actor operates a false access point that will automatically clone, or twin, the identity of an access point based on a client device's request to connect.
What is the IEEE standard for WiMax?	802.16
What is the IP header protocol field value for TCP? UDP? ICMP? IGMP?	6, 17, 1, 2
What is the minimum amount of information needed by a wireless client to connect to a network hosted by a wireless access point?	SSID
What is the minimum length of a TCP header?	20 bytes
What is the most significant bit in a string?	The leftmost bit
What is the primary security feature of Bluetooth pairing?	A four‐digit PIN
What is the primary weakness of satellite communications?	Large terrestrial footprint
What is the standard that wireless networking technology is based on?	802.11
What is the TCP/IP model?	Also known as DARPA, or the DoD model, the TCP/IP model is a protocol model derived from TCP/IP and has four layers: Application (also known as Process), Transport (also known as Host‐to‐Host), Internet (sometimes known as Internetworking), and Link (although Network Interface and sometimes Network Access are used).
What is the Wi‐Fi attack known as KRACK?	In late 2017, a concept of attack known as KRACK (Key Reinstallation AttaCKs) was disclosed that is able to corrupt the initial four‐way handshake between client and WAP into reusing a previously used key and in some cases use a key composed of only zeros.
What is typosquatting?	A practice employed to capture and redirect traffic when a user mistypes the domain name or IP address of an intended resource
What is VRF (virtual routing and forwarding)?	VRF is a technology that allows multiple instances of a routing table to coexist within a router. Each VRF instance operates as a separate and independent routing domain, enabling the isolation of routing information. It allows the same physical router to maintain separate routing tables for different VRF instances, preventing the leakage of routing information between them.
What is war chalking?	War chalking is a type of geek graffiti that some wireless hackers used during the early years of wireless (1997–2002). It's a way to physically mark an area with information about the presence of a wireless network.
What is war driving?	A collection of techniques to discover that a wireless network is present at a given location
What is WPS?	Wi‐Fi Protected Setup (WPS) is a security standard for wireless networks. It is intended to simplify the effort involved in adding new clients to a well‐secured wireless network. It operates by autoconnecting the first new wireless client to seek the network once the administrator triggered the feature by pressing the WPS button on the base station.
What makes the usable throughput of ISDN less than the stated bandwidth?	The D channel is used only for call management, not data.
What mode is used when a wireless network link is established without the use of an access point?	Ad hoc or peer‐to‐peer
What network device works primarily at the Application layer?	An Application layer gateway
What port is used by DHCP?	Port 68 for client request broadcast and port 67 for server point‐to‐point response
What port is used by IMAP?	143
What ports are used by DNS and for what purposes?	TCP 53 is used for zone transfers (which includes most DNS server to DNS server communications), and UDP 53 is used for queries (which is any non‐DNS system sending a query to a DNS server).
What protocol is used by ping , pathping , and traceroute ?	ICMP
What two forms of authentication are supported by 802.11?	Open System Authentication (OSA) and Shared Key Authentication (SKA)
What two ICMP type field values are employed in a successful ping activity?	8: echo request, 0: echo reply
What two items are required for infrastructure mode wireless networking?	Wireless access points and wireless clients
What type of cabling must be used to comply with building code safety requirements?	Plenum‐rated cable
What was the original IEEE standard for Bluetooth? And what is the current standard?	IEEE 802.15.1 originally, now Bluetooth SIG.
When a domain name is registered, where and how is it stored?	Every registered domain name has an assigned authoritative name server. The primary authoritative name server hosts the original zone file for the domain. Secondary authoritative name servers can be used to host read‐only copies of the zone file. A zone file is the collection of resource records or details about the specific domain. There are dozens of possible resource records.
