Define the various types of software license agreements.	Perpetual licenses, subscription licenses, open source licenses, freeware, enterprise license agreements (ELAs), end‐user license agreements (EULAs), concurrent use licenses, named user licenses, and cloud services license agreements
How long does trade secret protection last?	Indefinitely
Name the two primary laws that are designed to protect society against computer crime and their basic provisions.	The Computer Fraud and Abuse Act (as amended) protects computers used by the government or in interstate commerce from a variety of abuses. The Electronic Communications Privacy Act (ECPA) makes it a crime to invade the electronic privacy of an individual.
True or false? In most circumstances, it is illegal for an employer to monitor an employee's email.	False
What amendment to the U.S. Constitution forms the basis for privacy rights?	Fourth Amendment
What are the basic provisions of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998?	The Digital Millennium Copyright Act prohibits the circumvention of copy protection mechanisms placed in digital media and limits the liability of Internet service providers for the activities of their users.
What are the basic provisions of the Economic Espionage Act of 1996?	The Economic Espionage Act provides penalties for individuals found guilty of the theft of trade secrets. Harsher penalties apply when the individual knows that the information will benefit a foreign government.
What are the differences among copyrights, trademarks, patents, and trade secrets?	Copyrights protect original works of authorship, such as books, articles, poems, and songs. Trademarks are names, slogans, and logos that identify a company, product, or service. Patents provide protection to the creators of new inventions. Trade secret law protects the operating secrets of a firm.
What are the differences between criminal law, civil law, and administrative law?	Criminal law protects society against acts that violate the basic principles we believe in. Violations of criminal law are prosecuted by federal and state governments. Civil law provides the framework for the transaction of business between people and organizations. Violations of civil law are brought to the court and argued by the two affected parties. Administrative law is used by government agencies to effectively carry out their day‐to‐day business.
What are the legal responsibilities of a cybersecurity professional?	Cybersecurity professionals must be able to analyze a situation and determine what jurisdictions and laws apply. They must be able to identify relevant contractual, legal, regulatory, and industry standards and interpret them for their given situation.
What are the major laws that govern privacy of personal information in the United States, the European Union, and Canada?	The United States has a number of privacy laws that affect the government's use of information as well as the use of information by specific industries, such as financial services companies and healthcare organizations that handle sensitive information. The EU has a more comprehensive General Data Protection Regulation that governs the use and exchange of personal information. In Canada, the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act (PIPEDA) governs the use of personal information.
What are the parameters of the HITECH data breach notification requirements?	Under the HITECH Breach Notification Rule, HIPAA‐covered entities that experience a data breach must notify affected individuals of the breach and must also notify both the Secretary of Health and Human Services and the media when the breach affects more than 500 individuals.
What are the terms of the notification requirements placed on organizations that experience a data breach within the United States?	California's SB 1386 implemented the first statewide requirement to notify individuals of a breach of their personal information. All other states eventually followed suit with similar laws. Currently, federal law only requires the notification of individuals when a HIPAA‐covered entity breaches their protected health information.
What are the three requirements for acceptance of a patent application?	The invention must be new, useful, and nonobvious.
What are the two requirements for acceptance of a trademark application?	The trademark must not be confusingly similar to another trademark, and it must not be descriptive.
What is data portability?	Data portability refers to the ability of individuals to easily and securely move their personal data from one system, service, or application to another. It allows users to transfer their data between different platforms, promoting user control and facilitating competition among service providers.
What is DRM?	Digital rights management (DRM) software uses encryption to enforce copyright restrictions on digital media. The purpose is to prevent the unauthorized use, modification, and distribution of copyrighted works.
What is FISMA?	The Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA), passed in 2002, requires that federal agencies implement an information security program that covers the agency's operations. The 2014 FISMA modified the rules of the 2002 FISMA by centralizing federal cybersecurity responsibility with the Department of Homeland Security (DHS).
What is HITECH?	In 2009, Congress amended HIPAA by passing the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (HITECH) Act. This law updated many of HIPAA's privacy and security requirements and was implemented through the HIPAA Omnibus Rule in 2013.
What is industrial espionage?	The gathering of a competitor's confidential information, also called industrial espionage, is not a new phenomenon. Businesses have used illegal means to acquire competitive information for many years. The temptation to steal a competitor's trade secrets and the ease with which a savvy attacker can compromise some computer systems makes this type of attack attractive.
What is privacy by design?	Privacy by design (PbD) is a guideline to integrate privacy protections into products during the early design phase rather than attempting to tack it on at the end of development. The PbD framework is based on seven foundational principles.
What is South Africa's primary legislation governing data protection?	The Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA), which went into effect in 2020, promotes the protection of personal information processed by public and private bodies and introduces specific conditions for the lawful processing of personal information, closely mirroring principles seen in the GDPR.
What is the Clarifying Lawful Overseas Use of Data (CLOUD) Act?	This act established procedures that govern access to data held by technology companies across national borders. This piece of legislation was introduced as a way to improve law enforcement's ability to gather digital evidence stored on servers regardless of where the servers are located, provided that the company is based within the United States or subject to U.S. jurisdiction.
What is the GDPR?	The European Union (EU) General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). It replaced the EU Data Protection Directive, and it regulates the transfer of personal data in and out of the EU.
What is the importance of a well‐rounded compliance program?	Most organizations are subject to a wide variety of legal and regulatory requirements related to information security. Building a compliance program ensures that you become and remain compliant with these often overlapping requirements.
What is the name of the data protection and privacy law of China?	Personal Information Protection Law (PIPL), which came into effect in 2021, is China's first comprehensive national standard in data privacy law, somewhat analogous to the GDPR in the EU, and it imposes stringent regulations on personal data processing activities.
What law created the category of mission‐critical computer systems?	Government Information Security Reform Act
What law extends the definition of property to include proprietary economic information so that the theft of this information can be considered industrial or corporate espionage?	Economic and Protection of Proprietary Information Act of 1996
What law grants privacy rights to students enrolled in educational institutions that accept government funding?	Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act
What law requires all communications carriers to make wiretaps possible for law enforcement with an appropriate court order regardless of the technology in use?	Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (CALEA) of 1994
What law requires that websites provide parents with the opportunity to review any information collected from their children?	Children's Online Privacy Protection Act
What legal protections exist for proprietary data?	Copyrights, patents, and trade secret laws provide protection for proprietary data.
What types of organizations need to comply with PCI DSS?	Those that store, process, or transmit credit card account information
