A group of attackers is sponsored by a government. They are highly motivated, skilled, and patient and focused on a single target to gain and retain access over long periods of time. What is this group called?	Advanced persistent threat (APT)
An attacker has launched an attack using a vulnerability known only to him. What is this called?	Zero‐day exploit
Define social engineering and its common principles.	Social engineering is a form of attack that exploits human nature and human behavior. The common social engineering principles are authority, intimidation, consensus, scarcity, familiarity, trust, and urgency.
Define the concept of risk management?	Risk management is the process of identifying factors that could damage or disclose data, evaluating those factors in light of data value and countermeasure cost, and implementing cost‐effective solutions for mitigating or reducing risk is known as risk management. By performing risk management, you lay the foundation for reducing risk overall.
How should an organization handle employee transfers?	Personnel transfers may be treated as a fire/rehire rather than a personnel move. This depends on the organization's policies and the means they use to manage this change. Some of the elements that go into choosing the procedure include whether the same user account will be retained, if their clearance will be adjusted, if their new work responsibilities are similar to the previous position, and if a “clean slate” account is required for auditing purposes in the new job position.
How should an organization incorporate security into the procurement and vendor governance process?	The expanded use of cloud services by many organizations requires added attention to conducting reviews of information security controls during the vendor selection process and as part of ongoing vendor governance.
In legal and ethical contexts to describe different standards of behavior or decision‐making, especially related to risk management, what are prudent actions?	Prudent actions refer to actions or decisions that are marked by a high degree of caution, care, and foresight. They are characterized by careful consideration of potential risks, a focus on preventing harm, and a commitment to acting in a manner that is consistent with established best practices or industry standards.
In legal and ethical contexts to describe different standards of behavior or decision‐making, especially related to risk management, what are reasonable actions?	Reasonable actions refer to actions or decisions that are in line with what a person of ordinary prudence and judgment would do in similar circumstances. These actions are based on the idea of acting in a manner that is sensible, rational, and consistent with societal norms and expectations. Reasonable actions are a standard often used in legal and ethical contexts to assess whether an individual's behavior or decisions meet a minimum threshold of acceptability.
In relation to risk, what is a hazard?	Refers to a potential source or situation that has the capability to cause harm, loss, damage, injury, or adverse consequences to an organization, its assets, individuals, or the environment
In the context of a risk management process, what is scope?	Scope refers to the extent or boundaries of a risk management process, project, or assessment. It defines what is included and what is excluded in the risk management efforts. Determining the scope is a critical step in effectively managing and addressing risks, as it helps organizations focus their resources and efforts on the most relevant areas.
Influence campaigns are linked to the distribution of false or misleading content. What types of misleading content are there?	Disinformation, misinformation, propaganda, false information, fake news, and doxing
Name at least five possible threats that should be evaluated when performing a risk analysis.	Viruses; buffer overflows; coding errors; user errors; intruders (physical and logical); natural disasters; equipment failure; misuse of data, resources, or services; loss of data; physical theft; denial of service
Name several examples of types of social engineering attacks.	Social engineering attacks may be used to elicit information or gain access through the use of pretexting and/or prepending. Social engineering attacks include phishing, spear phishing, business email compromise (BEC), whaling, smishing, vishing, spam, shoulder surfing, invoice scams, hoaxes, impersonation, masquerading, tailgating, piggybacking, dumpster diving, identity fraud, typosquatting, and influence campaigns.
Name several risk frameworks.	Risk Management Framework (RMF) defined by NIST, NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF), Control Objectives for Information and Related Technology (COBIT), Sherwood Applied Business Security Architecture (SABSA), Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP), Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL), and Payment Card Industry (PCI).
What are elements of effective user training against social‐engineering attacks?	Always err on the side of caution whenever communications are odd or unexpected. Always request proof of identity. Identify what information can be conveyed via voice communications by classifying the information. Never change passwords over the phone.
What are key concerns related to threat evaluation?	Threats can originate from numerous sources, including IT, humans, and nature. Threat assessment should be performed as a team effort to provide the widest range of perspectives. By fully evaluating risks from all angles, you reduce your system's vulnerability.
What are risk perspectives?	Risk perspectives (aka risk management perspectives or approaches) are different lenses through which organizations and individuals can view and address risks. Each perspective emphasizes certain aspects of risk and can guide decision‐making, risk assessment, and mitigation strategies. There are innumerable options of risk perspective, including asset, outcome, vulnerability, threat, financial, strategic, operational, compliance, legal, reputational, supply chain, third‐party, and workforce.
What are some examples of detection access controls?	Security guards, supervising users, incident investigations, and intrusion detection systems
What are some safeguards against sabotage?	Intensive auditing, monitoring for abnormal or unauthorized activity, keeping lines of communication open between employees and managers, and compensating and recognizing employees for excellence
What are the characteristics of qualitative risk analysis?	Qualitative risk analysis assigns subjective and intangible values to the loss of an asset. Qualitative risk analysis is based more on scenarios than calculations. Exact dollar figures are not assigned to possible losses; instead, threats are ranked on a scale to evaluate their risks, costs, and effects. Such an analysis assists those responsible for creating proper risk management policies.
What are the characteristics of quantitative risk analysis?	Quantitative risk analysis assigns real dollar figures to the loss of an asset. Quantitative risk analysis focuses on hard values and percentages. A complete quantitative analysis is not possible because of intangible aspects of risk. The process involves valuing assets and identifying threats and then determining a threat's potential frequency and the resulting damage, which leads to the risk response tasks of the cost/benefit analysis of safeguards.
What are the classifications of security control types?	Preventive, deterrent, detection, corrective, recovery, compensation, directive
What are the common elements of employee oversight?	Throughout the employment lifetime of personnel, managers should regularly review or audit the job descriptions, work tasks, privileges, and responsibilities for every staff member.
What are the elements of a termination procedure policy?	Have at least one witness; escort terminated employee off the premises immediately; collect identification, access, or security devices; perform exit interview; deactivate network account
What are the important factors in personnel management?	Hiring practices, ongoing job performance reviews, and termination procedures
What are the key elements of risk analysis?	Risk analysis is the process by which upper management is provided with details to make decisions about which risks are to be mitigated, which should be transferred, and which should be accepted. To fully evaluate risks and subsequently take the proper precautions, you must analyze the following: assets, asset valuation, threats, vulnerability, exposure, risk, realized risk, safeguards, countermeasures, attacks, and breaches.
What are the possible responses to a risk?	Acceptance, assignment, deterrence, avoidance, rejection, and mitigation
What are the possible valid responses by upper/senior management to risk?	Reducing risk or risk mitigation; assigning risk or transferring; risk deterrence; risk avoidance; accepting risk
What are the security implications of hiring new employees?	To properly plan for security, you must have standards in place for job descriptions, job classification, work tasks, job responsibilities, prevention of collusion, candidate screening, background checks, security clearances, employment agreements, and nondisclosure agreements. By deploying such mechanisms, you ensure that new hires are aware of the required security standards, thus protecting your organization's assets.
What are the three learning levels of security?	Awareness, training, and education
What are the three main types of physical security controls?	Administrative physical security controls, technical physical security controls, physical controls for physical security
What are the types and purposes of NDAs?	A unilateral NDA (aka one‐way NDA) is used when one party needs to share sensitive data with another party while retaining control and protection over that data. A bilateral NDA (aka mutual NDA or two‐way NDA) is a legally binding contract between two parties where both parties agree to protect each other's confidential information. A multilateral NDA is a legal contract involving three or more parties, each of whom agrees to protect and keep confidential the sensitive information shared by the other parties.
What are user behavior analytics (UBA) and user and entity behavior analytics (UEBA)?	User behavior analytics (UBA) and user and entity behavior analytics (UEBA) are the concepts of analyzing the behavior of users, subjects, visitors, customers, etc. for some specific goal or purpose. Information collected from UBA/UEBA monitoring can be used to improve personnel security policies, procedures, training, and related security oversight programs
What countermeasures are moderately effective against errors and omissions?	Input validators and user training
What feature of insurance can improve your ability to replace lost or damaged assets?	Actual Cost Value (ACV)
What is a risk framework?	A risk framework is a guideline or recipe for how risk is to be assessed, resolved, and monitored.
What is a security champion?	Often a security champion is a member of a group who decides (or is assigned) to take charge of leading the adoption and integration of security concepts into the group's work activities. Security champions are often nonsecurity employees who take up the mantle to encourage others to support and adopt more security practices and behaviors.
What is an APT?	Recent years marked the rise of sophisticated attackers known as advanced persistent threats (APTs). These attackers are well funded and have advanced technical skills and resources. They act on behalf of a nation‐state, organized crime, terrorist group, or other sponsor and wage highly effective attacks against a very focused target in order to maintain persistent unauthorized access or effect.
What is an exposure factor (EF)?	An EF is an element of quantitative risk analysis that represents the percentage of loss that an organization would experience if a specific asset were violated by a realized risk. By calculating exposure factors, you are able to implement a sound risk management policy.
What is an SLA?	Organizations use service‐level agreements (SLAs) with outside entities such as vendors. They stipulate performance expectations such as maximum downtimes and often include penalties if the vendor doesn't meet expectations.
What is annualized loss expectancy, and how is it calculated?	The possible yearly cost of all instances of a specific realized threat against a specific asset. ALE = single loss expectancy (SLE) × annualized rate of occurrence (ARO).
What is annualized rate of occurrence (ARO)?	ARO is an element of quantitative risk analysis that represents the expected frequency with which a specific threat or risk will occur (in other words, become realized) within a single year. Understanding AROs further enables you to calculate the risk and take proper precautions.
What is Authorization to Operate (ATO)?	Authorization to Operate (ATO) (from the RMF) is a formal approval to operate IT/IS based on an acceptable risk level based on the implementation of an agreed‐on set of security and privacy controls.
What is cross‐training?	Cross‐training is often discussed as an alternative to job rotation. In both cases, workers learn the responsibilities and tasks of multiple job positions. However, in cross‐training the workers are just prepared to perform the other job positions; they are not rotated through them on a regular basis. Cross‐training enables existing personnel to fill the work gap when the proper employee is unavailable as a type of emergency response procedure.
What is cybersecurity insurance (aka cyber insurance or cyber‐risk insurance)?	Cybersecurity insurance is a type of insurance policy that provides coverage and financial protection to organizations or individuals in the event of cyber‐related incidents, data breaches, or cyberattacks. This form of insurance is designed to help mitigate the financial and legal consequences of cybersecurity breaches, which can result in data loss, financial loss, legal liabilities, and reputational damage.
What is disinformation?	Intentionally false or misleading information spread with the purpose of deceiving or manipulating people; often used as a tool for political, ideological, or malicious agendas
What is doxing?	Doxing, short for document tracing or dropping documents, involves researching and publishing private or personally identifiable information about an individual, such as their real name, address, contact details, or other sensitive data, often with malicious intent, such as harassment or public shaming. Doxing can also refer to the release of false and fabricated information. Doxing can also be used against organizations.
What is fake news?	A term used to describe deliberately fabricated news stories or hoaxes presented as genuine journalism. It can also be used to label genuine, factual, and accurate journalism as false. It often serves to misinform or deceive readers/viewers, and it may be politically motivated or created for profit.
What is false information?	Any information that is factually incorrect or inaccurate; can be created or spread unintentionally or intentionally and may or may not have a specific agenda
What is gamification as it applies to personnel security management?	Gamification is a means to encourage compliance and engagement by integrating common elements of game play into other activities, such as security compliance and behavior change.
What is generally involved in the processes of risk management?	Analyzing an environment for risks, evaluating each risk as to its likelihood and damage, assessing the cost of countermeasures, and creating a cost/benefit report to present to upper management
What is job rotation and why consider implementing it?	Job rotation is when employees are rotated into different jobs, or tasks are assigned to different employees. It may be implemented as a defense against collusion. Collusion is an agreement among multiple persons to perform some unauthorized or illegal actions.
What is micro training?	Micro training involves delivering short, focused, and bite‐sized learning modules or content to learners. These brief learning units are typically designed to be highly specific, addressing a single learning objective or a small set of related objectives in a concise and easily digestible format. Micro training is characterized by its brevity and effectiveness in conveying information, making it well suited for the fast‐paced and attention‐challenged digital age. Often, micro training is delivered via mobile apps.
What is misinformation?	Inaccurate or misleading information that is spread without malicious intent; can be the result of errors, misunderstandings, or the unintentional sharing of false information
What is propaganda?	A systematic effort to spread ideas, information, or opinions, often of a biased or misleading nature, to promote a particular cause, political viewpoint, or ideology; aims to shape public perception and behavior.
What is residual risk?	Once countermeasures are implemented, the risk that remains is known as residual risk. Residual risk is the risk that management has chosen to accept rather than mitigate.
What is risk avoidance?	Risk avoidance is the process of selecting alternate options or activities that have less associated risk than the default, common, expedient, or cheap option. For example, choosing to fly to a destination instead of drive is a form of risk avoidance. Another example is to locate a business in Arizona instead of Florida to avoid hurricanes.
What is risk deterrence?	Risk deterrence is the process of implementing deterrents to would‐be violators of security and policy. Some examples include implementation of auditing, security cameras, security guards, instructional signage, warning banners, motion detectors, strong authentication, and making it known that the organization is willing to cooperate with authorities and prosecute those who participate in cybercrime.
What is risk reporting?	Risk reporting involves the production of a risk report and a presentation of that report to the interested/relevant parties. A risk report should be accurate, timely, comprehensive of the entire organization, clear and precise to support decision making, and updated on a regular basis.
What is single loss expectancy, and how is it calculated?	The cost associated with a single realized risk against a specific asset. SLE = asset value (AV) × exposure factor (EF). The SLE is expressed as a dollar value.
What is the controls gap?	The difference between total risk and residual risk. The controls gap is the amount of risk that is reduced by implementing safeguards.
What is the cornerstone of computer security?	Education
What is the cost/benefit analysis equation for countermeasures?	(ALE before safeguard – ALE after implementing the safeguard) – annual cost of safeguard = value of the safeguard to the company
What is the Delphi technique?	The Delphi technique is an anonymous feedback‐and‐response process used to arrive at a consensus. Such a consensus gives the responsible parties the opportunity to properly evaluate risks and implement solutions.
What is the formula for computing annualized loss expectancy?	ALE = SLE × ARO [Annualized Loss Expectancy = Single Loss Expectancy × Annual Rate of Occurrence]
What is the formula for computing single loss expectancy?	SLE = AV × EF [Single Loss Expectancy = Asset Value × Exposure Factor]
What is the importance of job descriptions?	Without a job description, there is no consensus on what type of individual should be hired. Thus, crafting job descriptions is the first step in defining security needs related to personnel and being able to seek out new hires.
What is the need for a nondisclosure agreement (NDA)?	An NDA is used to protect the confidential information within an organization from being disclosed by a former employee. When a person signs an NDA, they agree not to disclose any information that is defined as confidential to anyone outside the organization.
What is the need for periodic content reviews and effectiveness evaluations?	It is important to perform periodic content reviews of all training materials. This is to ensure that the training materials and presentation stays in line with business goals, organizational mission, and security objectives. Some means of verification should be used to measure whether the training is beneficial or a waste of time and resources.
What is the purpose of vendor, consultant, and contractor controls?	Vendor, consultant, and contractor controls are used to define the levels of performance, expectation, compensation, and consequences for entities, persons, or organizations that are external to the primary organization. Often these controls are defined in a document or policy known as a service‐level agreement (SLA).
What is the Risk Maturity Model (RMM)?	The Risk Maturity Model (RMM) is a means to assess the key indicators and activities of a mature, sustainable, and repeatable risk management process. The RMM levels are ad hoc, preliminary, defined, integrated, and optimized.
What is total risk?	The amount of risk an organization would face if no safeguards were implemented. A formula for total risk is threats × vulnerabilities × asset value = total risk.
What kind of control does any mechanism, tool, or practice provide if it deters or mitigates undesirable actions or events?	Preventive control
What kind of control does any security tool provide when it's used to guide the security implementation within an organization?	Directive control
What kind of control should be used to verify the effectiveness of other security controls?	Detection control
What policy requires users to spend at least a week away from their jobs on an annual basis to help prevent fraud?	Mandatory vacations
What process identifies the actual value of assets so that assets can be prioritized?	Asset valuation
What role do humans play as a key element in security?	Humans are often considered the weakest element in any security solution. No matter what physical or logical controls are deployed, humans can discover ways to avoid them, circumvent or subvert them, or deactivate them. However, people can also become a key security asset when they are properly trained and are motivated to protect not only themselves but the security of the organization as well.
What should be considered when establishing the value of an asset?	Cost of purchase, development, maintenance, acquisition, and protection; value to owners/users/competitors; equity value; market valuation; liability of asset loss; and usefulness
What term describes the act of gathering information about a system by observing the display or watching an operator at the keyboard?	Shoulder surfing
What term is used to describe hackers rooting through trash looking for useful information?	Dumpster diving
What type of decision making is mainly concerned with metrics such as dollar values and downtime?	Quantitative
When a person attempts to deceive an insider within an organization to divulge sensitive information or to perform sensitive actions on their behalf, what might this be called?	Social engineering
Why isn't there an effective direct countermeasure against the threat of malicious hackers or crackers?	Most safeguards and countermeasures protect against one specific threat or another, but it is not possible to protect against all possible threats that a cracker represents.
Why should an organization implement security awareness, training, and education?	Awareness establishes a baseline of general security understanding. Training teaches employees to perform their work tasks in compliance with the security policy, standards, guidelines, and procedures mandated by the organization. Education is a more detailed endeavor in which students/users learn much more than they actually need to know to perform their work tasks.
