Define proactive threat modeling.	A proactive approach to threat modeling takes place during early stages of systems development, specifically during initial design and specifications establishment. This type of threat modeling is also known as a defensive approach. This method is based on predicting threats and designing in specific defenses during the coding and crafting process rather than relying on post‐deployment updates and patches.
Define reactive threat modeling.	A reactive approach to threat modeling takes place after a product has been created and deployed. This deployment could be in a test or laboratory environment or to the general marketplace. This type of threat modeling is also known as the adversarial approach. This technique of threat modeling is the core concept behind ethical hacking, penetration testing, source code review, and fuzz testing.
Define the aspect of confidentiality known as concealment.	Concealment is the act of hiding or preventing disclosure. Often concealment is viewed as a means of cover, obfuscation, or distraction.
Define the aspect of confidentiality known as criticality.	The level to which information is mission critical is its measure of criticality. The higher the level of criticality, the more likely the need to maintain the confidentiality of the information. High levels of criticality are essential to the operation or function of an organization.
Define the aspect of confidentiality known as discretion.	Discretion is an act of decision whereby an operator can influence or control disclosure in order to minimize harm or damage.
Define the aspect of confidentiality known as isolation.	Isolation is the act of keeping something separated from others. Isolation can be used to prevent comingling of information or disclosure of information.
Define the aspect of confidentiality known as privacy.	Privacy refers to keeping information confidential that is personally identifiable or that might cause harm, embarrassment, or disgrace to someone if revealed.
Define the aspect of confidentiality known as seclusion.	Seclusion refers to storing something in an out‐of‐the‐way location. This location can also provide strict access controls. Seclusion can help enforce confidentiality protections.
Define the aspect of confidentiality known as secrecy.	Secrecy is the activity of keeping something a secret or preventing the disclosure of information.
Define the aspect of confidentiality known as sensitivity.	Sensitivity refers to the quality of information that could cause harm or damage if disclosed. Maintaining confidentiality of sensitive information helps to prevent harm or damage.
Name at least seven security management concepts and principles.	CIA Triad, confidentiality, integrity, availability, privacy, identification, authentication, authorization, auditing, accountability, and nonrepudiation
Name the three common approaches to identifying threats.	Focused on assets, focused on attackers, and focused on software
Name three methods to rank and prioritize threats.	Probability × Damage Potential, high/medium/low, or DREAD.
What are due care and due diligence?	Due diligence is establishing a plan, policy, and process to protect the interests of an organization. Due care is practicing the individual activities that maintain the due diligence effort. Due diligence is knowing what should be done and planning for it; due care is doing the right action at the right time.
What are some concerns about defaults?	Never assume the default settings of any product are secure. It is always up to the system's administrator and/or company security staff to alter a product's settings to comply with the organization's security policies.
What are the 5 Pillars of Information Security?	The 5 Pillars of Information Security are confidentiality, integrity, availability, authenticity, and nonrepudiation.
What are the seven elements of PASTA (Process for Attack Simulation and Threat Analysis)?	Stage I is Definition the Objectives (DO), Stage II is Definition of the Technical Scope (DTS), Stage III is Application Decomposition and Analysis (ADA), Stage IV is Threat Analysis (TA), Stage V is Weakness and Vulnerability Analysis (WVA), Stage VI is Attack Modeling & Simulation (AMS), and Stage VII is Risk Analysis & Management (RAM).
What are the six key principles for governance and management of enterprise IT according to COBIT?	COBIT is based on six key principles for governance and management of enterprise IT: Provide Stakeholder Value, Holistic Approach, Dynamic Governance System, Governance Distinct from Management, Tailored to Enterprise Needs, and End‐to‐End Governance System.
What are the three types of plans employed in security management planning?	A strategic plan is a long‐term plan that is fairly stable. The tactical plan is a midterm plan that provides more details. Operational plans are short term and highly detailed.
What concept ensures that data existing at one level of security is not visible to processes running at different security levels?	Data hiding
What is a business case?	A business case is usually a documented argument or stated position in order to define a need to make a decision or take some form of action. To make a business case is to demonstrate a business‐specific need to alter an existing process or choose an approach to a business task. A business case is often made to justify the start of a new project, especially a project related to security. It is also important to consider the budget that can be allocated to a business‐need‐based security project.
What is a security boundary?	The line of intersection between any two areas, subnets, or environments that have different security requirements or needs
What is a software bill of materials (SBOM)?	A software bill of materials (SBOM) is a structured and comprehensive inventory or list of all the software components and dependencies that make up a software application or system. An SBOM provides detailed information about the various software components used in a system, including their versions, sources, and relationships. The primary purpose of an SBOM is to enhance software transparency, security, compliance, and management.
What is compliance?	Compliance is the act of conforming to or adhering to rules, policies, regulations, standards, or requirements. Compliance is an important concern to security governance. On a personnel level, compliance is related to whether individual employees follow company policy and perform their job tasks in accordance to defined procedures.
What is Control Objectives for Information and Related Technology (COBIT)?	COBIT a documented set of best IT security practices crafted by the Information Systems Audit and Control Association (ISACA). It prescribes goals and requirements for security controls and encourages the mapping of IT security ideals to business objectives. COBIT is based on six key principles.
What is data hiding?	Data hiding is preventing data from being known by a subject. Keeping a database from being accessed by unauthorized visitors is a form of data hiding.
What is defense in breadth or diversity of defense?	Defense in breadth or diversity of defense is also an important related concept to defense in depth. It can be problematic if elements of several security layers are from the same vendor or share common code, since a vulnerability could affect numerous layers simultaneously. By using a range of security products from varied vendors, the risk of a single exploit compromising several layers at once is significantly reduced or avoided.
What is DREAD?	DREAD is a threat rating system designed to provide a flexible rating solution that is based on asking five main questions of each threat: Damage potential: How severe is the damage likely to be if the threat is realized? Reproducibility: How complicated is it for attackers to reproduce the exploit? Exploitability: How hard is it to perform the attack? Affected users: How many users are likely to be affected by the attack (as a percentage)? Discoverability: How hard is it for an attacker to discover the weakness?
What is layering?	Layering is the use of multiple controls in a series. The use of a multilayered solution allows for numerous controls to be brought to bear against whatever threats occur.
What is nonrepudiation?	Nonrepudiation prevents a subject from claiming not to have sent a message, not to have performed an action, or not to have been the cause of an event.
What is reduction analysis?	Reduction analysis is also known as decomposing the application, system, or environment. The purpose of this task is to gain a greater understanding of the logic of the product as well as its interactions with external elements. Whether an application, a system, or an entire environment, it needs to be divided into smaller containers or compartments.
What is security governance?	Security governance is the collection of practices related to supporting, defining, and directing the security efforts of an organization. A common goal of organizational governance is to ensure that the organization will continue to exist and will grow or expand over time.
What is security management planning?	Security management planning ensures proper creation, implementation, and enforcement of a security policy. Security management is a responsibility of upper management, not of the IT staff, and is considered a business operations issue rather than an IT administration issue.
What is STRIDE?	Microsoft developed a threat categorization scheme known as STRIDE. STRIDE is often used in relation to assessing threats against applications or operating systems. However, it can also be used in other contexts as well. STRIDE is an acronym standing for Spoofing, Tampering, Repudiation, Information disclosure, Denial of service, and Elevation of privilege.
What is supply chain risk management (SCRM)?	SCRM is means to ensure that all the vendors or links in the supply chain are reliable, trustworthy, reputable organizations that disclose their practices and security requirements to their business partners. SCRM includes evaluating risks associated with hardware, software, and services; performing third‐party assessment and monitoring; establishing minimum security requirements; and enforcing service‐level requirements.
What is the concept of abstraction?	Abstraction is used to collect similar elements into groups, classes, or roles that are assigned security controls, restrictions, or permissions as a collective. It adds efficiency to carrying out a security plan.
What is the importance of accountability?	Security can be maintained only if subjects are held accountable for their actions. Effective accountability relies on the capability to prove a subject's identity and track their activities.
What is the name of the security management approach in which senior management calls the shots?	Top‐down approach
What is the need for a system security policy?	The role of a system security policy is to inform and guide the design, development, implementation, testing, and maintenance of a particular system. Thus, this kind of security policy tightly targets a single implementation effort.
What is the proper term for ensuring that information is accessible only to authorized parties?	Confidentiality
What is the proper term for the assurance that information and security controls used to protect information are accessible and usable when needed?	Availability
What is the purpose of alignment of security function to business strategy, goals, mission, and objectives?	Security management planning ensures proper creation, implementation, and enforcement of a security policy . Security management planning aligns the security functions to the strategy, goals, mission, and objectives of the organization. This includes designing and implementing security based on business cases, budget restrictions, or scarcity of resources.
What is the purpose of security monitoring and measurement?	Security controls should provide benefits that can be monitored and measured. If a security control's benefits cannot be quantified, evaluated, or compared, then it does not actually provide any security.
What is the term for exercising reasonable care in protecting organizational assets and interests, including development of a formalized security structure consisting of policies, procedures, and protocols?	Due care
What is third‐party governance?	Third‐party governance is the system of oversight that may be mandated by law, regulation, industry standards, or licensing requirements. The actual method of governance may vary but generally involves an outside investigator or auditor.
What is threat modeling?	Threat modeling is the security process whereby potential threats are identified, categorized, and analyzed. Threat modeling can be performed as a proactive measure during design and development or as a reactive measure once a product has been deployed.
What is Trike?	Trike is a threat modeling methodology that focuses on a risk‐based approach instead of depending on the aggregated threat model used in STRIDE and DREAD. Trike provides a method of performing a security audit in a reliable and repeatable procedure. It also provides a consistent framework for communication and collaboration among security workers.
What is VAST?	VAST (Visual, Agile, and Simple Threat) is a threat modeling concept based on Agile project management and programming principles. The goal of VAST is to integrate threat and risk management into an Agile programming environment on a scalable basis.
What process identifies and categorizes potential threats?	Threat modeling
What should the documents that make up a formalized security structure include?	Policies, standards, baselines, guidelines, and procedures
What type of approach to security is considered better than a fortress mentality approach?	Defense in depth, multiple layers of security, concentric circles of security
Why is continuous improvement necessary?	Security is always changing. Thus, any implemented security solution requires updates and changes over time. If a continuous improvement path is not provided by a selected countermeasure, then it should be replaced with one that offers scalable improvements to security.
