Explain why the separation of duties and responsibilities is a common security practice.	It prevents any single subject from being able to circumvent or deactivate security mechanisms.
What are common network administrative functions?	Configuration management, monitoring and analysis, troubleshooting and diagnostics, security management, user account management, software updates and patch management, backup and recovery tasks, and policy enforcement
What are MSSPs?	Managed security service providers (MSSPs) can provide centrally controlled advanced security solutions (such as XDR). MSSP solutions can be deployed fully on‐premise, fully in the cloud, or in a hybrid structure. MSSP solutions can be overseen through a local or remote SOC. Typically, working with an MSSP can allow an organization to gain the benefits of advanced security products and leverage the experience and expertise of the MSSP's staff of security management and response professionals.
What are security issues with managed services in the cloud?	Managed services in the cloud include any resources stored in or accessed via the cloud. Storing data in the cloud increases the risk, so additional steps may be necessary to protect the data, depending on its value. When leasing cloud‐based services, you must understand who is responsible for maintenance and security. The cloud service provider provides the least amount of maintenance and security in the IaaS model.
What are security needs for media storage?	Media storage facilities should be designed to securely store blank media, reusable media, and installation media. The concerns include theft, corruption, and data remnant recovery. Media storage facility protections include using locked cabinets or safes, using a media librarian/custodian, implementing a check‐in/check‐out process, and using media sanitization.
What are the goals of change management?	Implementation of changes in an orderly manner, formalized testing, ability to reverse changes, ability to inform users of changes, systematical analysis of changes, minimization of negative impact of changes
What are the important elements of change and configuration management?	The three basic components of change control are request control, change control, and release control.
What are the steps of a patch management program?	Evaluate, test, apply, and audit patches
What can a user entitlement review detect?	Violation of the principle of least privilege policy, as incidents of excessive privileges or privilege creep
What can be used to verify patches have been applied?	Vulnerability scanner or a patch management system
What does imaging provide in relation to configuration management?	Baseline
What helps prevent inadvertent weakening of security from unauthorized outages?	Change management
What helps prevent outages that can occur from unauthorized modifications?	Change management
What is change control or change management?	A mechanism used to systematically manage change. Typically, it involves extensive logging, auditing, and monitoring of activities related to security controls and security solutions.
What is condition monitoring?	Condition monitoring is monitoring and assessing the operational parameters, performance, and health of machinery, equipment, or systems in real time or periodically. The primary goal of condition monitoring is to identify any deviations from normal operating conditions that could indicate potential faults, defects, or deterioration. This proactive approach helps predict and prevent equipment failures, minimize downtime, and optimize maintenance strategies.
What is it called when a user accumulates privileges over time as their job roles and assigned tasks change but unneeded privileges are not revoked?	Privilege creep
What is it called when a user has more access, privilege, or permission than their assigned work tasks dictate?	Excessive privileges (also known as the violation of least privilege)
What is need to know?	Need to know is the requirement to have access to, knowledge of, or possession of data or a resource in order to perform specific work tasks.
What is segregation of duties?	Segregation of duties is similar to a separation of duties and responsibilities policy, but it also combines the principle of least privilege. The goal is to ensure that individuals do not have excessive system access that may result in a conflict of interest.
What is the basic idea that the information or privilege required to perform an operation is divided among multiple users (it is an application of separation of duties)?	Split knowledge
What is the principle of least privilege?	Subjects should be granted only the amount of access to objects that is required to accomplish their assigned work tasks.
What is two‐person control?	Two‐person control is similar to segregation of duties. It requires the approval of two individuals for critical tasks.
What is versioning?	Versioning typically refers to version control used in software configuration management. A labeling or numbering system differentiates between different software sets and configurations across multiple machines or at different points in time on a single machine.
What security mechanisms are countermeasures to collusion?	Job rotation, separation of duties, two‐person control, mandatory vacations, workstation change
What should be done to verify patches have been applied?	Audit patches, or use a vulnerability scanner to verify patches have been applied
What trend makes it especially important to incorporate an assessment of security controls in contracting and procurement reviews?	The increased use of third‐party and cloud services
When users are granted only the minimum access necessary to complete some task or process, what principle is involved?	The principle of least privilege
Why is it important to protect against privilege abuse?	It can cause the disclosure of sensitive information, violating the principle of confidentiality.
Why is it important to protect against resource waste?	If the storage space, computing power, or networking bandwidth capacity is consumed by inappropriate or non‐work‐related (non‐profit‐producing) data, the organization loses money.
Why monitor privileged operations?	Privileged entities are trusted, but they can abuse their privileges. Because of this, it's essential to monitor all assignment of privileges and the use of privileged operations. The goal is to ensure that trusted employees do not abuse the special privileges they are granted. Monitoring these operations can also detect many attacks because attackers commonly use special privileges during an attack. Advanced privileged account management practices can limit the time users have advanced privileges.
