Define PAP, CHAP, and EAP.	Password Authentication Protocol (PAP) transmits usernames and passwords in cleartext. Challenge Handshake Authentication Protocol (CHAP) performs authentication using a challenge‐response dialogue that cannot be replayed. Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP) allows customized authentication security solutions.
How do logical access controls protect assets?	Logical access controls include authentication, authorization, and permissions. They limit who can access information, settings, and use of information, systems, devices, facilities, applications, and services.
How does identification work?	Identification is the process by which a subject professes an identity and accountability is initiated. A subject must provide an identity to a system to start the process of authentication, authorization, and accountability/accounting.
How is accountability maintained?	Accountability is maintained for individual subjects through the use of auditing. Logs record user activities and users can be held accountable for their logged actions. This directly promotes good user behavior and compliance with the organization's security policy.
How is the ticket‐granting ticket used by Kerberos generated?	The user's password is hashed, and a timestamp is added.
Items of information used to establish or prove authorized identities are known as what kind of factors?	Authentication
Name at least eight biometric factors.	Fingerprints, face scans, iris scans, retina scans, palm topography, palm geography, heart/pulse pattern, voice pattern, signature dynamics, keystroke patterns
Name the four key principles upon which access control relies.	Identification, authentication, authorization, accounting, auditing
What are examples of EAP methods?	Over 40 EAP methods are defined, including LEAP, PEAP, EAP‐SIM, EAP‐FAST, EAP‐MD5, EAP‐POTP, EAP‐TLS, EAP‐TTLS, EAP‐IKEv2, and EAP‐NOOB.
What are examples of Kerberos exploitation attacks?	Kerberos attacks attempt to exploit weaknesses in Kerberos tickets. In some attacks, they capture tickets held in the lsass.exe process and use them in pass‐the‐ticket attacks. A silver ticket grants the attacker all the privileges granted to a service account. Attackers can create golden tickets after obtaining the hash of the Kerberos service account (KRBTGT), giving them the ability to create tickets at will within Active Directory.
What are examples of proximity devices?	Proximity devices can be a passive device, a field‐powered device, or a transponder.
What are examples of single sign‐on methods used on the Internet?	Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) is an open XML‐based standard used to exchange authentication and authorization information. OAuth 2.0 is an authorization framework described in RFC 6749 and supported by many online sites. OASIS maintains OpenID and OpenID Connect (OIDC). OpenID provides authentication. OIDC provides both authentication and authorization by using the OAuth framework and building on the OpenID standard.
What are smartcards?	Smartcards are credit card–sized IDs, badges, or security passes with an embedded magnetic stripe, bar code, or integrated circuit chip. They contain information about the authorized bearer that can be used for identification and/or authentication purposes.
What are the components of the AAA model of access control?	The AAA model includes three major components. Authentication confirms that a user, device, or service is who it claims to be. Authorization ensures that users, devices, and services may only perform actions that they are entitled to perform. Accounting creates an audit trail of activity that may be later verified.
What are the five elements of an AAA service?	Identification, authentication, authorization, auditing, and accounting
What are the issues related to user acceptance of biometric enrollment and throughput rate?	Enrollment times longer than 2 minutes are unacceptable; subjects will typically accept a throughput rate of about 6 seconds or faster.
What are the requirements for accountability?	Identification, authentication, authorization, and auditing
What are the three commonly recognized authentication factors?	Something you know, something you have, and something you are
What are three remote access authentication mechanisms or AAA services?	RADIUS, DIAMETER, and TACACS+
What is 802.1X?	IEEE 802.1X defines the use of encapsulated EAP to support a wide range of authentication options for LAN connections. The IEEE 802.1X standard is formally named “Port‐Based Network Access Control.” 802.1X is basically a mechanism to proxy authentication from the local device to another dedicated authentication service within the network.
What is a centralized database of resources available to the network?	A directory service
What is a cognitive password?	A series of questions about facts or predefined responses that only the subject should know (for example: What is your birth date? What is your mother's maiden name?)
What is auditing (related to AAA services)?	Auditing is the programmatic means by which subjects are held accountable for their actions while authenticated on a system through the documentation or recording of subject activities.
What is context‐aware authentication?	An authentication method often used by mobile device management (MDM) systems to identify mobile device users. It includes multiple elements such as the location of the user, the time of day, and the mobile device.
What is credential management?	The storage of credentials in a central location is referred to as credential management. Given the wide range of Internet sites and services, each with its own particular logon requirements, it can be a burden to use unique names and passwords. Credential management solutions offer a means to securely store a plethora of credential sets.
What is entitlement?	Entitlement refers to the amount of privileges granted to users, typically when first provisioning an account.
What is IDaaS?	Identity as a service, or identity and access as a service (IDaaS), is a third‐party service that provides identity and access management. IDaaS effectively provides SSO for the cloud and is especially useful when internal clients access cloud‐based software‐as‐a‐service (SaaS) applications.
What is it called when an authorized party indicates its intention to fulfill some contractual obligation and forgoes its right to dispute that fulfillment after the fact?	Nonrepudiation
What is JIT provisioning in relation to IAM?	Just‐in‐time (JIT) provisioning creates user accounts on third‐party sites the first time a user logs onto the site. JIT reduces the administrative workload compared to a manual identity and access management solution.
What is Kerberos?	Kerberos is the most common SSO method used within organizations. The primary purpose of Kerberos is authentication. It uses symmetric cryptography and tickets to prove identification and provide authentication. One server synchronizes its time with a Network Time Protocol (NTP) server, and all clients within a network synchronize with the same time.
What is OAuth?	OAuth is an open SSO standard designed to work with HTTP, and it allows users to log on with one account. For example, users can log on to their Google account and use the same account to access Facebook and other sites and online services.
What is offboarding?	Offboarding is the removal of an employee's identity from the identity and access management (IAM) system once that person has left the organization.
What is onboarding?	Onboarding is the process of adding new employees to the identity and access management (IAM) system of an organization. The onboarding process is also used when an employee's role or position changes or when that person is awarded additional levels of privilege or access.
What is OpenID Connect (OIDC)?	OpenID Connect (OIDC) is an authentication layer using the OAuth 2.0 authorization framework. A key point is that it provides both authentication and authorization. OIDC is maintained by the OpenID Foundation. OIDC uses a JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Web Token (JWT), also called an ID token.
What is session management?	Session management processes help prevent unauthorized access by closing unattended sessions. Developers commonly use web frameworks to implement session management. These frameworks allow developers to ensure sessions are closed after a specific amount of inactivity, such as after 2 minutes.
What is single sign‐on (SSO)?	A mechanism that allows subjects to authenticate once and access multiple objects without authenticating again
What is the function of authorization?	Once a subject is authenticated, its access must be authorized. The process of authorization ensures that the requested activity or object access is possible given the rights and privileges assigned to the authenticated identity.
What is the identity and access provisioning life cycle?	The identity and access provisioning life cycle refers to the creation, management, and deletion of accounts. Provisioning ensures that accounts have appropriate privileges based on task requirements and employees receive any needed hardware. Onboarding processes inform employees of organizational processes. Deprovisioning processes deactivate or delete an account when employees leave, and offboarding processes ensure that employees return all the hardware an organization issued to them.
What is the most unacceptable form of biometric control to end users?	Retina scans
What is the primary difference between memory cards and smartcards?	Processing capability
What is the process of authentication?	Authentication is the process of verifying or testing that a claimed identity is valid. Authentication requires information (i.e., authentication factors) from the subject that must exactly correspond to the identity indicated.
What is the purpose of AAA protocols?	Several protocols provide centralized authentication, authorization, and accounting services. Network access (or remote access) systems use AAA protocols.
What is the stored sample of a biometric factor called?	A reference profile or a reference template
What is the typical process for a new employee to establish their identity?	New employees establish their identity with official documentation such as a passport, driver's license, or birth certificate. HR personnel then begin the registration process, which includes creating an account for new employees. When biometric authentication is used, the registration process also collects biometric data. Identity proofing includes knowledge‐based authentication and cognitive passwords. These ask users a series of questions that only the user would know.
What term describes the act of using another person's security ID to gain unauthorized entry into a facility?	Masquerading
What term is used to refer to the user or process that makes a request to access a resource?	Subject
With what other forms of single sign‐on can Kerberos be combined?	Any or all of them, including SESAME, KryptoKnight, NetSP, thin clients, directory services, and scripted access
